THE 
INTELLIGENTINVESTOR
A BOOK OF PRACTICAL COUNSEL
REVISED EDITION
BENJAMIN GRAHAM
Updated with New Commentary by Jason ZweigTo E.M.G.Through chances various, through all 
vicissitudes, we make our way ....
AeneidContents
Epigraph iii
Preface to the Fourth Edition, by Warren E. BuffettANote About Benjamin Graham, by Jason Zweigx
Introduction: What This Book Expects to Accomplish 1
COMMENTARY ON THE INTRODUCTION 12
1. Investment versus Speculation: Results to Be 
Expected by the Intelligent Investor 18
COMMENTARY ON CHAPTER 1 35
2. The Investor and Inflation 47
COMMENTARY ON CHAPTER 2 58
3. A Century of Stock-Market History: 
The Level of Stock Prices in Early 1972 65
COMMENTARY ON CHAPTER 3 80
4. General Portfolio Policy: The Defensive Investor 88
COMMENTARY ON CHAPTER 4 101
5. The Defensive Investor and Common Stocks 112
COMMENTARY ON CHAPTER 5 124
6. Portfolio Policy for the Enterprising Investor: 
Negative Approach 133
COMMENTARY ON CHAPTER 6 145
7. Portfolio Policy for the Enterprising Investor: 
The Positive Side 155
COMMENTARY ON CHAPTER 7 179
8. The Investor and Market Fluctuations 188
ivviiiv Contents
COMMENTARY ON CHAPTER 8 213
9. Investing in Investment Funds 226
COMMENTARY ON CHAPTER 9 242
10. The Investor and His Advisers 257
COMMENTARY ON CHAPTER 10 272
11. Security Analysis for the Lay Investor: 
General Approach 280
COMMENTARY ON CHAPTER 11 302
12. Things to Consider About Per-Share Earnings 310
COMMENTARY ON CHAPTER 12 322
13. A Comparison of Four Listed Companies 330
COMMENTARY ON CHAPTER 13 339
14. Stock Selection for the Defensive Investor 347
COMMENTARY ON CHAPTER 14 367
15. Stock Selection for the Enterprising Investor 376
COMMENTARY ON CHAPTER 15 396
16. Convertible Issues and Warrants 403
COMMENTARY ON CHAPTER 16 418
17. Four Extremely Instructive Case Histories 422
COMMENTARY ON CHAPTER 17 438
18. A Comparison of Eight Pairs of Companies 446
COMMENTARY ON CHAPTER 18 473
19. Shareholders and Managements: Dividend Policy 487
COMMENTARY ON CHAPTER 19 497
20. “Margin of Safety” as the Central Concept 
of Investment 512
COMMENTARY ON CHAPTER 20 525
Postscript 532
COMMENTARY ON POSTSCRIPT 535
Appendixes
1. The Superinvestors of Graham-and-Doddsville 537Contents vi
2. Important Rules Concerning Taxability of Investment
Income and Security Transactions (in 1972) 561
3. The Basics of Investment Taxation 
(Updated as of 2003) 562
4. The New Speculation in Common Stocks 563
5. A Case History: Aetna Maintenance Co. 575
6. Tax Accounting for NVF’s Acquisition of 
Sharon Steel Shares 576
7. Technological Companies as Investments 578
Endnotes 579Acknowledgments from Jason Zweig 589
About the Authors
Credits
Front CoverCopyright
About the Publisher
The text reproduced here is the Fourth Revised Edition, updated by
Graham in 1971–1972 and initially published in 1973. Please be
advised that the text of Graham’s original footnotes (designated in his
chapters with superscript numerals) can be found in the Endnotes sec-tion beginning on p. 579. The new footnotes that Jason Zweig has intro-duced appear at the bottom of Graham’s pages (and, in the typefaceused here, as occasional additions to Graham’s endnotes).Index 591Preface to the Fourth Edition, 
by Warren E. Buffett
Iread the first edition of this book early in 1950, when I was nine-
teen. I thought then that it was by far the best book about investing
ever written. I still think it is.
To invest successfully over a lifetime does not require a strato-
spheric IQ, unusual business insights, or inside information.What’s needed is a sound intellectual framework for making deci-
sions and the ability to keep emotions from corroding that frame-
work. This book precisely and clearly prescribes the properframework. You must supply the emotional discipline.
If you follow the behavioral and business principles that Gra-
ham advocates—and if you pay special attention to the invaluableadvice in Chapters 8 and 20—you will not get a poor result from
your investments. (That represents more of an accomplishment
than you might think.) Whether you achieve outstanding resultswill depend on the effort and intellect you apply to your invest-ments, as well as on the amplitudes of stock-market folly that pre-vail during your investing career. The sillier the market’s behavior,the greater the opportunity for the business-like investor. Follow
Graham and you will profit from folly rather than participate in it.
To me, Ben Graham was far more than an author or a teacher.
More than any other man except my father, he influenced my life.Shortly after Ben’s death in 1976, I wrote the following short
remembrance about him in the Financial Analysts Journal. As you
read the book, I believe you’ll perceive some of the qualities I men-tioned in this tribute.
viiiix Preface to the Fourth Edition
BENJAMIN GRAHAM
1894–1976
Several years ago Ben Graham, then almost eighty, expressed to a friend
the thought that he hoped every day to do “something foolish, something
creative and something generous.”
The inclusion of that first whimsical goal reflected his knack for pack-
aging ideas in a form that avoided any overtones of sermonizing or 
self-importance. Although his ideas were powerful, their delivery was
unfailingly gentle.
Readers of this magazine need no elaboration of his achievements as
measured by the standard of creativity. It is rare that the founder of a disci-
pline does not find his work eclipsed in rather short order by successors.
But over forty years after publication of the book that brought structure
and logic to a disorderly and confused activity, it is difficult to think of pos-sible candidates for even the runner-up position in the field of securityanalysis. In an area where much looks foolish within weeks or months
after publication, Ben’s principles have remained sound—their value often
enhanced and better understood in the wake of financial storms thatdemolished flimsier intellectual structures. His counsel of soundnessbrought unfailing rewards to his followers—even to those with natural
abilities inferior to more gifted practitioners who stumbled while follow-
ing counsels of brilliance or fashion.
A remarkable aspect of Ben’s dominance of his professional field was
that he achieved it without that narrowness of mental activity that concen-
trates all effort on a single end. It was, rather, the incidental by-product of
an intellect whose breadth almost exceeded definition. Certainly I havenever met anyone with a mind of similar scope. Virtually total recall,unending fascination with new knowledge, and an ability to recast it in a
form applicable to seemingly unrelated problems made exposure to his
thinking in any field a delight.
But his third imperative—generosity—was where he succeeded beyond
all others. I knew Ben as my teacher, my employer, and my friend. In each
relationship—just as with all his students, employees, and friends—there
was an absolutely open-ended, no-scores-kept generosity of ideas, time,and spirit. If clarity of thinking was required, there was no better place togo. And if encouragement or counsel was needed, Ben was there.
Walter Lippmann spoke of men who plant trees that other men will sit
under. Ben Graham was such a man.
Reprinted from the Financial Analysts Journal, November/December 1976.xA Note About Benjamin Graham
by Jason Zweig
Who was Benjamin Graham, and why should you listen to him?
Graham was not only one of the best investors who ever lived; he was
also the greatest practical investment thinker of all time. Before Graham,
money managers behaved much like a medieval guild, guided largely bysuperstition, guesswork, and arcane rituals. Graham’s Security Analysis
was the textbook that transformed this musty circle into a modern pro-
fession.
1
AndThe Intelligent Investor is the first book ever to describe, for
individual investors, the emotional framework and analytical tools that
are essential to financial success. It remains the single best book on
investing ever written for the general public. The Intelligent Investor
was the first book I read when I joined Forbes Magazine as a cub
reporter in 1987 , and I was struck by Graham’s certainty that, sooneror later, all bull markets must end badly. That October, U.S. stocks suf-
fered their worst one-day crash in history, and I was hooked. (Today,after the wild bull market of the late 1990s and the brutal bear market
that began in early 2000, The Intelligent Investor reads more prophet-
ically than ever.)
Graham came by his insights the hard way: by feeling firsthand the
anguish of financial loss and by studying for decades the history and
psychology of the markets. He was born Benjamin Grossbaum onMay 9, 1894, in London; his father was a dealer in china dishes and
figurines.
2The family moved to New York when Ben was a year old. At
first they lived the good life—with a maid, a cook, and a French gov-
1Coauthored with David Dodd and first published in 1934.
2The Grossbaums changed their name to Graham during World War I,
when German-sounding names were regarded with suspicion.xi A Note About Benjamin Graham
erness—on upper Fifth Avenue. But Ben’s father died in 1903, the
porcelain business faltered, and the family slid haltingly into poverty.Ben’s mother turned their home into a boardinghouse; then, borrow-ing money to trade stocks “on margin, ” she was wiped out in the crashof 1907 . For the rest of his life, Ben would recall the humiliation of
cashing a check for his mother and hearing the bank teller ask, “IsDorothy Grossbaum good for five dollars?”
Fortunately, Graham won a scholarship at Columbia, where his 
brilliance burst into full flower. He graduated in 1914, second in hisclass. Before the end of Graham’s final semester, three departments—
English, philosophy, and mathematics—asked him to join the faculty.He was all of 20 years old.
Instead of academia, Graham decided to give Wall Street a shot.
He started as a clerk at a bond-trading firm, soon became an analyst,then a partner, and before long was running his own investment part-
nership.
The Internet boom and bust would not have surprised Graham. In
April 1919, he earned a 250% return on the first day of trading forSavold Tire, a new offering in the booming automotive business; by
October, the company had been exposed as a fraud and the stock
was worthless.
Graham became a master at researching stocks in microscopic,
almost molecular, detail. In 1925, plowing through the obscurereports filed by oil pipelines with the U.S. Interstate Commerce Com-mission, he learned that Northern Pipe Line Co.—then trading at $65
per share—held at least $80 per share in high-quality bonds. (Hebought the stock, pestered its managers into raising the dividend, and
came away with $110 per share three years later.)
Despite a harrowing loss of nearly 70% during the Great Crash of
1929–1932, Graham survived and thrived in its aftermath, harvestingbargains from the wreckage of the bull market. There is no exact
record of Graham’s earliest returns, but from 1936 until he retired in
1956, his Graham-Newman Corp. gained at least 14.7% annually,versus 12.2% for the stock market as a whole—one of the best long-term track records on Wall Street history.
3
3Graham-Newman Corp. was an open-end mutual fund (see Chapter 9)
that Graham ran in partnership with Jerome Newman, a skilled investor in his
own right. For much of its history, the fund was closed to new investors. I amA Note About Benjamin Graham xii
How did Graham do it? Combining his extraordinary intellectual
powers with profound common sense and vast experience, Graham
developed his core principles, which are at least as valid today as theywere during his lifetime:
• A stock is not just a ticker symbol or an electronic blip; it is an
ownership interest in an actual business, with an underlying value
that does not depend on its share price.
• The market is a pendulum that forever swings between unsustain-
able optimism (which makes stocks too expensive) and unjustifiedpessimism (which makes them too cheap). The intelligent investoris a realist who sells to optimists and buys from pessimists.
• The future value of every investment is a function of its present
price. The higher the price you pay, the lower your return will be.
• No matter how careful you are, the one risk no investor can ever
eliminate is the risk of being wrong. Only by insisting on whatGraham called the “margin of safety”—never overpaying, no mat-
ter how exciting an investment seems to be—can you minimizeyour odds of error.
• The secret to your financial success is inside yourself. If you
become a critical thinker who takes no Wall Street “fact” on faith,
and you invest with patient confidence, you can take steadyadvantage of even the worst bear markets. By developing your
discipline and courage, you can refuse to let other people’s mood
swings govern your financial destiny. In the end, how your invest-ments behave is much less important than how you behave.
The goal of this revised edition of The Intelligent Investor is to apply
Graham’s ideas to today’s financial markets while leaving his text
entirely intact (with the exception of footnotes for clarification).
4After
each of Graham’s chapters you’ll find a new commentary. In these
reader’s guides, I’ve added recent examples that should show you justhow relevant—and how liberating—Graham’s principles remain today.
grateful to Walter Schloss for providing data essential to estimating 
Graham-Newman’s returns. The 20% annual average return that Grahamcites in his Postscript (p. 532) appears not to take management fees intoaccount.
4The text reproduced here is the Fourth Revised Edition, updated by Gra-
ham in 1971–1972 and initially published in 1973.xiii A Note About Benjamin Graham
I envy you the excitement and enlightenment of reading Graham’s
masterpiece for the first time—or even the third or fourth time. Like all
classics, it alters how we view the world and renews itself by educat-ing us. And the more you read it, the better it gets. With Graham asyour guide, you are guaranteed to become a vastly more intelligent
investor.INTRODUCTION :
What This Book Expects to Accomplish
The purpose of this book is to supply, in a form suitable for lay-
men, guidance in the adoption and execution of an investment pol-
icy. Comparatively little will be said here about the technique ofanalyzing securities; attention will be paid chiefly to investmentprinciples and investors’ attitudes. We shall, however, provide a
number of condensed comparisons of specific securities—chiefly in
pairs appearing side by side in the New York Stock Exchange list—in order to bring home in concrete fashion the important elements
involved in specific choices of common stocks.
But much of our space will be devoted to the historical patterns
of financial markets, in some cases running back over manydecades. To invest intelligently in securities one should be fore-armed with an adequate knowledge of how the various types of
bonds and stocks have actually behaved under varying condi-
tions—some of which, at least, one is likely to meet again in one’s
own experience. No statement is more true and better applicable toWall Street than the famous warning of Santayana: “Those who donot remember the past are condemned to repeat it.”
Our text is directed to investors as distinguished from specula-
tors, and our first task will be to clarify and emphasize this now all
but forgotten distinction. We may say at the outset that this is not a
“how to make a million” book. There are no sure and easy paths toriches on Wall Street or anywhere else. It may be well to point up
what we have just said by a bit of financial history—especiallysince there is more than one moral to be drawn from it. In the cli-mactic year 1929 John J. Raskob, a most important figure nationallyas well as on Wall Street, extolled the blessings of capitalism in anarticle in the Ladies’ Home Journal, entitled “Everybody Ought to Be
1Rich.”* His thesis was that savings of only $15 per month invested
in good common stocks—with dividends reinvested—would pro-
duce an estate of $80,000 in twenty years against total contributions
of only $3,600. If the General Motors tycoon was right, this wasindeed a simple road to riches. How nearly right was he? Ourrough calculation—based on assumed investment in the 30 stocksmaking up the Dow Jones Industrial Average (DJIA)—indicatesthat if Raskob’s prescription had been followed during 1929–1948,
the investor’s holdings at the beginning of 1949 would have been
worth about $8,500. This is a far cry from the great man’s promiseof $80,000, and it shows how little reliance can be placed on such
optimistic forecasts and assurances. But, as an aside, we should
remark that the return actually realized by the 20-year operationwould have been better than 8% compounded annually—and thisdespite the fact that the investor would have begun his purchaseswith the DJIA at 300 and ended with a valuation based on the 1948closing level of 177. This record may be regarded as a persuasive
argument for the principle of regular monthly purchases of strong
common stocks through thick and thin—a program known as “dollar-cost averaging.”
Since our book is not addressed to speculators, it is not meant
for those who trade in the market. Most of these people are guidedby charts or other largely mechanical means of determining the
right moments to buy and sell. The one principle that applies to
nearly all these so-called “technical approaches” is that one shouldbuy because a stock or the market has gone up and one should sell
because it has declined. This is the exact opposite of sound business
sense everywhere else, and it is most unlikely that it can lead to2 Introduction
* Raskob (1879–1950) was a director of Du Pont, the giant chemical com-
pany, and chairman of the finance committee at General Motors. He also
served as national chairman of the Democratic Party and was the driving
force behind the construction of the Empire State Building. Calculations byfinance professor Jeremy Siegel confirm that Raskob’s plan would havegrown to just under $9,000 after 20 years, although inflation would haveeaten away much of that gain. For the best recent look at Raskob’s views onlong-term stock investing, see the essay by financial adviser William Bern-stein at www.efficientfrontier.com/ef/197/raskob.htm.lasting success on Wall Street. In our own stock-market experience
and observation, extending over 50 years, we have not known a
single person who has consistently or lastingly made money by
thus “following the market.” We do not hesitate to declare that thisapproach is as fallacious as it is popular. We shall illustrate whatwe have just said—though, of course this should not be taken asproof—by a later brief discussion of the famous Dow theory fortrading in the stock market.*
Since its first publication in 1949, revisions of The Intelligent
Investor have appeared at intervals of approximately five years. In
updating the current version we shall have to deal with quite a
number of new developments since the 1965 edition was written.
These include:
1. An unprecedented advance in the interest rate on high-grade
bonds.
2. A fall of about 35% in the price level of leading common
stocks, ending in May 1970. This was the highest percentage
decline in some 30 years. (Countless issues of lower quality
had a much larger shrinkage.)
3. A persistent inflation of wholesale and consumer’s prices,
which gained momentum even in the face of a decline of gen-eral business in 1970.
4. The rapid development of “conglomerate” companies, fran-
chise operations, and other relative novelties in business andfinance. (These include a number of tricky devices such as “let-
ter stock,”
1proliferation of stock-option warrants, misleading
names, use of foreign banks, and others.)†What This Book Expects to Accomplish 3
* Graham’s “brief discussion” is in two parts, on p. 33 and pp. 191–192.
For more detail on the Dow Theory, see http://viking.som.yale.edu/will/
dow/dowpage.html.
† Mutual funds bought “letter stock” in private transactions, then immedi-ately revalued these shares at a higher public price (see Graham’s definitionon p. 579). That enabled these “go-go” funds to report unsustainably highreturns in the mid-1960s. The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commissioncracked down on this abuse in 1969, and it is no longer a concern for fundinvestors. Stock-option warrants are explained in Chapter 16.5. Bankruptcy of our largest railroad, excessive short- and long-
term debt of many formerly strongly entrenched companies,
and even a disturbing problem of solvency among Wall Street
houses.*
6. The advent of the “performance” vogue in the management of
investment funds, including some bank-operated trust funds,with disquieting results.
These phenomena will have our careful consideration, and some
will require changes in conclusions and emphasis from our previ-ous edition. The underlying principles of sound investment should
not alter from decade to decade, but the application of these princi-
ples must be adapted to significant changes in the financial mecha-nisms and climate.
The last statement was put to the test during the writing of the
present edition, the first draft of which was finished in January1971. At that time the DJIA was in a strong recovery from its 1970
low of 632 and was advancing toward a 1971 high of 951, withattendant general optimism. As the last draft was finished, in
November 1971, the market was in the throes of a new decline, car-
rying it down to 797 with a renewed general uneasiness about its
future. We have not allowed these fluctuations to affect our generalattitude toward sound investment policy, which remains substan-
tially unchanged since the first edition of this book in 1949.
The extent of the market’s shrinkage in 1969–70 should have
served to dispel an illusion that had been gaining ground dur-ing the past two decades. This was that leading common stocks
could be bought at any time and at any price, with the assurance notonly of ultimate profit but also that any intervening loss would soon
be recouped by a renewed advance of the market to new high lev-4 Introduction
* The Penn Central Transportation Co., then the biggest railroad in the
United States, sought bankruptcy protection on June 21, 1970—shocking
investors, who had never expected such a giant company to go under (see
p. 423). Among the companies with “excessive” debt Graham had in mindwere Ling-Temco-Vought and National General Corp. (see pp. 425 and463). The “problem of solvency” on Wall Street emerged between 1968and 1971, when several prestigious brokerages suddenly went bust.els. That was too good to be true. At long last the stock market has
“returned to normal,” in the sense that both speculators and stock
investors must again be prepared to experience significant and per-
haps protracted falls as well as rises in the value of their holdings.
In the area of many secondary and third-line common stocks,
especially recently floated enterprises, the havoc wrought by thelast market break was catastrophic. This was nothing new initself—it had happened to a similar degree in 1961–62—but there
was now a novel element in the fact that some of the investment
funds had large commitments in highly speculative and obviouslyovervalued issues of this type. Evidently it is not only the tyro who
needs to be warned that while enthusiasm may be necessary for
great accomplishments elsewhere, on Wall Street it almost invari-ably leads to disaster.
The major question we shall have to deal with grows out of the
huge rise in the rate of interest on first-quality bonds. Since late 1967the investor has been able to obtain more than twice as much
income from such bonds as he could from dividends on representa-
tive common stocks. At the beginning of 1972 the return was 7.19%on highest-grade bonds versus only 2.76% on industrial stocks.
(This compares with 4.40% and 2.92% respectively at the end of
1964.) It is hard to realize that when we first wrote this book in 1949the figures were almost the exact opposite: the bonds returned only
2.66% and the stocks yielded 6.82%.
2In previous editions we have
consistently urged that at least 25% of the conservative investor’s
portfolio be held in common stocks, and we have favored in generala 50–50 division between the two media. We must now considerwhether the current great advantage of bond yields over stock
yields would justify an all-bond policy until a more sensible rela-
tionship returns, as we expect it will. Naturally the question of con-tinued inflation will be of great importance in reaching our decision
here. A chapter will be devoted to this discussion.*What This Book Expects to Accomplish 5
* See Chapter 2. As of the beginning of 2003, U.S. Treasury bonds matur-
ing in 10 years yielded 3.8%, while stocks (as measured by the Dow JonesIndustrial Average) yielded 1.9%. (Note that this relationship is not all thatdifferent from the 1964 figures that Graham cites.) The income generatedby top-quality bonds has been falling steadily since 1981.In the past we have made a basic distinction between two kinds
of investors to whom this book was addressed—the “defensive”
and the “enterprising.” The defensive (or passive) investor will
place his chief emphasis on the avoidance of serious mistakes orlosses. His second aim will be freedom from effort, annoyance, andthe need for making frequent decisions. The determining trait ofthe enterprising (or active, or aggressive) investor is his willingnessto devote time and care to the selection of securities that are both
sound and more attractive than the average. Over many decades
an enterprising investor of this sort could expect a worthwhilereward for his extra skill and effort, in the form of a better average
return than that realized by the passive investor. We have some
doubt whether a really substantial extra recompense is promised tothe active investor under today’s conditions. But next year or theyears after may well be different. We shall accordingly continue todevote attention to the possibilities for enterprising investment, asthey existed in former periods and may return.
It has long been the prevalent view that the art of success-
ful investment lies first in the choice of those industries that are most likely to grow in the future and then in identifying the
most promising companies in these industries. For example, smart
investors—or their smart advisers—would long ago have recog-nized the great growth possibilities of the computer industry as a
whole and of International Business Machines in particular. And
similarly for a number of other growth industries and growth com-panies. But this is not as easy as it always looks in retrospect. To
bring this point home at the outset let us add here a paragraph thatwe included first in the 1949 edition of this book.
Such an investor may for example be a buyer of air-transport
stocks because he believes their future is even more brilliant than
the trend the market already reflects. For this class of investor the
value of our book will lie more in its warnings against the pitfallslurking in this favorite investment approach than in any positive
technique that will help him along his path.*6 Introduction
* “Air-transport stocks, ” of course, generated as much excitement in the late
1940s and early 1950s as Internet stocks did a half century later. Amongthe hottest mutual funds of that era were Aeronautical Securities and theThe pitfalls have proved particularly dangerous in the industry
we mentioned. It was, of course, easy to forecast that the volume of
air traffic would grow spectacularly over the years. Because of this
factor their shares became a favorite choice of the investmentfunds. But despite the expansion of revenues—at a pace evengreater than in the computer industry—a combination of techno-logical problems and overexpansion of capacity made for fluctuat-ing and even disastrous profit figures. In the year 1970, despite a
new high in traffic figures, the airlines sustained a loss of some
$200 million for their shareholders. (They had shown losses also in1945 and 1961.) The stocks of these companies once again showed a
greater decline in 1969–70 than did the general market. The record
shows that even the highly paid full-time experts of the mutualfunds were completely wrong about the fairly short-term future ofa major and nonesoteric industry.
On the other hand, while the investment funds had substantial
investments and substantial gains in IBM, the combination of its
apparently high price and the impossibility of being certain about
its rate of growth prevented them from having more than, say, 3%
of their funds in this wonderful performer. Hence the effect of 
this excellent choice on their overall results was by no means 
decisive. Furthermore, many—if not most—of their investments incomputer-industry companies other than IBM appear to have been
unprofitable. From these two broad examples we draw two morals
for our readers:
1. Obvious prospects for physical growth in a business do not
translate into obvious profits for investors.
2. The experts do not have dependable ways of selecting and
concentrating on the most promising companies in the most
promising industries.What This Book Expects to Accomplish 7
Missiles-Rockets-Jets & Automation Fund. They, like the stocks they owned,
turned out to be an investing disaster. It is commonly accepted today thatthe cumulative earnings of the airline industry over its entire history havebeen negative. The lesson Graham is driving at is not that you should avoidbuying airline stocks, but that you should never succumb to the “certainty”that any industry will outperform all others in the future.The author did not follow this approach in his financial career as
fund manager, and he cannot offer either specific counsel or much
encouragement to those who may wish to try it.
What then will we aim to accomplish in this book? Our main
objective will be to guide the reader against the areas of possible
substantial error and to develop policies with which he will becomfortable. We shall say quite a bit about the psychology ofinvestors. For indeed, the investor’s chief problem—and even his
worst enemy—is likely to be himself. (“The fault, dear investor, is
not in our stars—and not in our stocks—but in ourselves . . . .”) This
has proved the more true over recent decades as it has become
more necessary for conservative investors to acquire common
stocks and thus to expose themselves, willy-nilly, to the excitementand the temptations of the stock market. By arguments, examples,and exhortation, we hope to aid our readers to establish the propermental and emotional attitudes toward their investment decisions.We have seen much more money made and kept by “ordinary peo-
ple” who were temperamentally well suited for the investmentprocess than by those who lacked this quality, even though theyhad an extensive knowledge of finance, accounting, and stock-
market lore.
Additionally, we hope to implant in the reader a tendency to
measure or quantify. For 99 issues out of 100 we could say that atsome price they are cheap enough to buy and at some other price
they would be so dear that they should be sold. The habit of relat-ing what is paid to what is being offered is an invaluable trait in
investment. In an article in a women’s magazine many years agowe advised the readers to buy their stocks as they bought their gro-
ceries, not as they bought their perfume. The really dreadful losses
of the past few years (and on many similar occasions before) were
realized in those common-stock issues where the buyer forgot toask “How much?”
In June 1970 the question “How much?” could be answered by
the magic figure 9.40%—the yield obtainable on new offerings ofhigh-grade public-utility bonds. This has now dropped to about7.3%, but even that return tempts us to ask, “Why give any otheranswer?” But there are other possible answers, and these must becarefully considered. Besides which, we repeat that both we andour readers must be prepared in advance for the possibly quite dif-ferent conditions of, say, 1973–1977.8 IntroductionWe shall therefore present in some detail a positive program for
common-stock investment, part of which is within the purview of
both classes of investors and part is intended mainly for the enter-
prising group. Strangely enough, we shall suggest as one of ourchief requirements here that our readers limit themselves to issuesselling not far above their tangible-asset value.* The reason for this seemingly outmoded counsel is both practical and psychologi-cal. Experience has taught us that, while there are many good
growth companies worth several times net assets, the buyer of
such shares will be too dependent on the vagaries and fluctuationsof the stock market. By contrast, the investor in shares, say, of 
public-utility companies at about their net-asset value can always
consider himself the owner of an interest in sound and expandingbusinesses, acquired at a rational price—regardless of what thestock market might say to the contrary. The ultimate result of sucha conservative policy is likely to work out better than excitingadventures into the glamorous and dangerous fields of anticipated
growth.
The art of investment has one characteristic that is not generally
appreciated. A creditable, if unspectacular, result can be achieved
by the lay investor with a minimum of effort and capability; but toimprove this easily attainable standard requires much applicationand more than a trace of wisdom. If you merely try to bring just a
little extra knowledge and cleverness to bear upon your investment
program, instead of realizing a little better than normal results, youmay well find that you have done worse.
Since anyone—by just buying and holding a representative
list—can equal the performance of the market averages, it wouldseem a comparatively simple matter to “beat the averages”; but as
a matter of fact the proportion of smart people who try this and fail
is surprisingly large. Even the majority of the investment funds,with all their experienced personnel, have not performed so wellWhat This Book Expects to Accomplish 9
* Tangible assets include a company’s physical property (like real estate,
factories, equipment, and inventories) as well as its financial balances (suchas cash, short-term investments, and accounts receivable). Among the ele-ments not included in tangible assets are brands, copyrights, patents, fran-chises, goodwill, and trademarks. To see how to calculate tangible-assetvalue, see footnote † on p. 198.over the years as has the general market. Allied to the foregoing 
is the record of the published stock-market predictions of the 
brokerage houses, for there is strong evidence that their calculated
forecasts have been somewhat less reliable than the simple tossingof a coin.
In writing this book we have tried to keep this basic pitfall of
investment in mind. The virtues of a simple portfolio policy havebeen emphasized—the purchase of high-grade bonds plus a diver-
sified list of leading common stocks—which any investor can carry
out with a little expert assistance. The adventure beyond this safeand sound territory has been presented as fraught with challeng-
ing difficulties, especially in the area of temperament. Before
attempting such a venture the investor should feel sure of himselfand of his advisers—particularly as to whether they have a clearconcept of the differences between investment and speculation andbetween market price and underlying value.
A strong-minded approach to investment, firmly based on the
margin-of-safety principle, can yield handsome rewards. But adecision to try for these emoluments rather than for the assuredfruits of defensive investment should not be made without much
self-examination.
A final retrospective thought. When the young author entered
Wall Street in June 1914 no one had any inkling of what the nexthalf-century had in store. (The stock market did not even suspect
that a World War was to break out in two months, and close downthe New York Stock Exchange.) Now, in 1972, we find ourselves the
richest and most powerful country on earth, but beset by all sortsof major problems and more apprehensive than confident of the
future. Yet if we confine our attention to American investment
experience, there is some comfort to be gleaned from the last 57
years. Through all their vicissitudes and casualties, as earth-shaking as they were unforeseen, it remained true that sound
investment principles produced generally sound results. We must
act on the assumption that they will continue to do so.
Note to the Reader: This book does not address itself to the overall
financial policy of savers and investors; it deals only with that portion of their funds which they are prepared to place in mar-ketable (or redeemable) securities, that is, in bonds and stocks.10 IntroductionConsequently we do not discuss such important media as savings
and time desposits, savings-and-loan-association accounts, life
insurance, annuities, and real-estate mortgages or equity owner-
ship. The reader should bear in mind that when he finds the word“now,” or the equivalent, in the text, it refers to late 1971 or early 1972.What This Book Expects to Accomplish 11COMMENTARY ON THE INTRODUCTION
If you have built castles in the air, your work need not be lost;
that is where they should be. Now put the foundations under
them.
—Henry David Thoreau, Walden
Notice that Graham announces from the start that this book will not
tell you how to beat the market. No truthful book can.
Instead, this book will teach you three powerful lessons:
• how you can minimize the odds of suffering irreversible losses;• how you can maximize the chances of achieving sustainable gains;• how you can control the self-defeating behavior that keeps most
investors from reaching their full potential.
Back in the boom years of the late 1990s, when technology stocks
seemed to be doubling in value every day, the notion that you couldlose almost all your money seemed absurd. But, by the end of 2002,many of the dot-com and telecom stocks had lost 95% of their value
or more. Once you lose 95% of your money, you have to gain 1,900%
just to get back to where you started.
1Taking a foolish risk can put
you so deep in the hole that it’s virtually impossible to get out. That’swhy Graham constantly emphasizes the importance of avoidinglosses—not just in Chapters 6, 14, and 20, but in the threads of warn-
ing that he has woven throughout his entire text.
But no matter how careful you are, the price of your investments
willgo down from time to time. While no one can eliminate that risk,
121To put this statement in perspective, consider how often you are likely to
buy a stock at $30 and be able to sell it at $600.Commentary on the Introduction 13
Graham will show you how to manage it—and how to get your fears
under control.
ARE YOU AN INTELLIGENT INVESTOR?
Now let’s answer a vitally important question. What exactly does Gra-
ham mean by an “intelligent” investor? Back in the first edition of thisbook, Graham defines the term—and he makes it clear that this kind ofintelligence has nothing to do with IQ or SAT scores. It simply meansbeing patient, disciplined, and eager to learn; you must also be able to
harness your emotions and think for yourself. This kind of intelligence,
explains Graham, “is a trait more of the character than of the brain. ”
2
There’s proof that high IQ and higher education are not enough to
make an investor intelligent. In 1998, Long-Term Capital ManagementL.P., a hedge fund run by a battalion of mathematicians, computer scientists, and two Nobel Prize–winning economists, lost more than $2 billion in a matter of weeks on a huge bet that the bond marketwould return to “normal. ” But the bond market kept right on becomingmore and more abnormal—and LTCM had borrowed so much money
that its collapse nearly capsized the global financial system.
3
And back in the spring of 1720, Sir Isaac Newton owned shares in
the South Sea Company, the hottest stock in England. Sensing that
the market was getting out of hand, the great physicist muttered thathe “could calculate the motions of the heavenly bodies, but not the
madness of the people. ” Newton dumped his South Sea shares, pock-
eting a 100% profit totaling £7 ,000. But just months later, swept up inthe wild enthusiasm of the market, Newton jumped back in at a much
higher price—and lost £20,000 (or more than $3 million in today’s
money). For the rest of his life, he forbade anyone to speak the words“South Sea” in his presence.
4
2Benjamin Graham, The Intelligent Investor (Harper & Row, 1949), p. 4.
3A “hedge fund” is a pool of money, largely unregulated by the government,
invested aggressively for wealthy clients. For a superb telling of the LTCM
story, see Roger Lowenstein, When Genius Failed (Random House, 2000).
4John Carswell, The South Sea Bubble (Cresset Press, London, 1960),
pp. 131, 199. Also see www.harvard-magazine.com/issues/mj99/damnd.html.Sir Isaac Newton was one of the most intelligent people who ever
lived, as most of us would define intelligence. But, in Graham’s terms,
Newton was far from an intelligent investor. By letting the roar of thecrowd override his own judgment, the world’s greatest scientist actedlike a fool.
In short, if you’ve failed at investing so far, it’s not because you’re
stupid. It’s because, like Sir Isaac Newton, you haven’t developed theemotional discipline that successful investing requires. In Chapter 8,
Graham describes how to enhance your intelligence by harnessingyour emotions and refusing to stoop to the market’s level of irrational-
ity. There you can master his lesson that being an intelligent investor ismore a matter of “character” than “brain. ”
A CHRONICLE OF CALAMITY
Now let’s take a moment to look at some of the major financial devel-
opments of the past few years:
1. The worst market crash since the Great Depression, with U.S.
stocks losing 50.2% of their value—or $7.4 trillion —between
March 2000 and October 2002.
2. Far deeper drops in the share prices of the hottest companies of
the 1990s, including AOL, Cisco, JDS Uniphase, Lucent, and
Qualcomm—plus the utter destruction of hundreds of Internetstocks.
3. Accusations of massive financial fraud at some of the largest and
most respected corporations in America, including Enron, Tyco,and Xerox.
4. The bankruptcies of such once-glistening companies as Con-
seco, Global Crossing, and WorldCom.
5. Allegations that accounting firms cooked the books, and even
destroyed records, to help their clients mislead the investing public.
6. Charges that top executives at leading companies siphoned off
hundreds of millions of dollars for their own personal gain.
7 . Proof that security analysts on Wall Street praised stocks publicly
but admitted privately that they were garbage.
8. A stock market that, even after its bloodcurdling decline, seems
overvalued by historical measures, suggesting to many expertsthat stocks have further yet to fall.14 Commentary on the Introduction9. A relentless decline in interest rates that has left investors with no
attractive alternative to stocks.
10. An investing environment bristling with the unpredictable menace
of global terrorism and war in the Middle East.
Much of this damage could have been (and was!) avoided by
investors who learned and lived by Graham’s principles. As Graham
puts it, “while enthusiasm may be necessary for great accomplish-ments elsewhere, on Wall Street it almost invariably leads to disaster. ”By letting themselves get carried away—on Internet stocks, on big
“growth” stocks, on stocks as a whole—many people made the same
stupid mistakes as Sir Isaac Newton. They let other investors’ judg-ments determine their own. They ignored Graham’s warning that “the
really dreadful losses” always occur after “the buyer forgot to ask
‘How much?’ ” Most painfully of all, by losing their self-control justwhen they needed it the most, these people proved Graham’s asser-
tion that “the investor’s chief problem—and even his worst enemy—islikely to be himself. ”
THE SURE THING THAT WASN’T
Many of those people got especially carried away on technology and
Internet stocks, believing the high-tech hype that this industry would
keep outgrowing every other for years to come, if not forever:
• In mid-1999, after earning a 117 .3% return in just the first five
months of the year, Monument Internet Fund portfolio manager
Alexander Cheung predicted that his fund would gain 50% a year
over the next three to five years and an annual average of 35%
“over the next 20 years. ”
5Commentary on the Introduction 15
5Constance Loizos, “Q&A: Alex Cheung, ” InvestmentNews, May 17 , 1999,
p. 38. The highest 20-year return in mutual fund history was 25.8% per year,
achieved by the legendary Peter Lynch of Fidelity Magellan over the two
decades ending December 31, 1994. Lynch’s performance turned $10,000into more than $982,000 in 20 years. Cheung was predicting that his fundwould turn $10,000 into more than $4 million over the same length of time.Instead of regarding Cheung as ridiculously overoptimistic, investors threw• After his Amerindo Technology Fund rose an incredible 248.9%
in 1999, portfolio manager Alberto Vilar ridiculed anyone who
dared to doubt that the Internet was a perpetual moneymakingmachine: “If you’re out of this sector, you’re going to underper-form. You’re in a horse and buggy, and I’m in a Porsche. You 
don’t like tenfold growth opportunities? Then go with someoneelse. ”
6
• In February 2000, hedge-fund manager James J. Cramer pro-
claimed that Internet-related companies “are the only ones worthowning right now. ” These “winners of the new world, ” as he calledthem, “are the only ones that are going higher consistently ingood days and bad. ” Cramer even took a potshot at Graham: “Youhave to throw out all of the matrices and formulas and texts thatexisted before the Web. . . . If we used any of what Graham and
Dodd teach us, we wouldn’t have a dime under management. ”
7
All these so-called experts ignored Graham’s sober words of warn-
ing: “Obvious prospects for physical growth in a business do nottranslate into obvious profits for investors. ” While it seems easy toforesee which industry will grow the fastest, that foresight has no realvalue if most other investors are already expecting the same thing. Bythe time everyone decides that a given industry is “obviously” the best16 Commentary on the Introduction
money at him, flinging more than $100 million into his fund over the next
year. A $10,000 investment in the Monument Internet Fund in May 1999
would have shrunk to roughly $2,000 by year-end 2002. (The Monumentfund no longer exists in its original form and is now known as Orbitex
Emerging Technology Fund.)
6Lisa Reilly Cullen, “The Triple Digit Club, ” Money, December, 1999, p. 170.
If you had invested $10,000 in Vilar’s fund at the end of 1999, you wouldhave finished 2002 with just $1,195 left—one of the worst destructions of
wealth in the history of the mutual-fund industry.
7See www.thestreet.com/funds/smarter/891820.html. Cramer’s favorite
stocks did not go “higher consistently in good days and bad. ” By year-end2002, one of the 10 had already gone bankrupt, and a $10,000 investmentspread equally across Cramer’s picks would have lost 94%, leaving youwith a grand total of $597 .44. Perhaps Cramer meant that his stocks wouldbe “winners” not in “the new world, ” but in the world to come.one to invest in, the prices of its stocks have been bid up so high that
its future returns have nowhere to go but down.
For now at least, no one has the gall to try claiming that technology
will still be the world’s greatest growth industry. But make sure you
remember this: The people who now claim that the next “sure thing”will be health care, or energy, or real estate, or gold, are no more likelyto be right in the end than the hypesters of high tech turned out to be.
THE SILVER LINING
If no price seemed too high for stocks in the 1990s, in 2003 we’ve
reached the point at which no price appears to be low enough. Thependulum has swung, as Graham knew it always does, from irrational
exuberance to unjustifiable pessimism. In 2002, investors yanked $27
billion out of stock mutual funds, and a survey conducted by the Secu-rities Industry Association found that one out of 10 investors had cut
back on stocks by at least 25%. The same people who were eager tobuy stocks in the late 1990s—when they were going up in price and,
therefore, becoming expensive—sold stocks as they went down in
price and, by definition, became cheaper.
As Graham shows so brilliantly in Chapter 8, this is exactly back-
wards. The intelligent investor realizes that stocks become more risky,not less, as their prices rise—and less risky, not more, as their prices
fall. The intelligent investor dreads a bull market, since it makes stocksmore costly to buy. And conversely (so long as you keep enough cash
on hand to meet your spending needs), you should welcome a bear
market, since it puts stocks back on sale.
8
So take heart: The death of the bull market is not the bad news
everyone believes it to be. Thanks to the decline in stock prices, nowis a considerably safer—and saner—time to be building wealth. Readon, and let Graham show you how.Commentary on the Introduction 17
8The only exception to this rule is an investor in the advanced stage of
retirement, who may not be able to outlast a long bear market. Yet even an
elderly investor should not sell her stocks merely because they have gonedown in price; that approach not only turns her paper losses into real onesbut deprives her heirs of the potential to inherit those stocks at lower costsfor tax purposes.CHAPTER 1
Investment versus Speculation: Results to
Be Expected by the Intelligent Investor
This chapter will outline the viewpoints that will be set forth in
the remainder of the book. In particular we wish to develop at the
outset our concept of appropriate portfolio policy for the individ-ual, nonprofessional investor.
Investment versus Speculation
What do we mean by “investor”? Throughout this book the
term will be used in contradistinction to “speculator.” As far backas 1934, in our textbook Security Analysis,
1we attempted a precise
formulation of the difference between the two, as follows: “An
investment operation is one which, upon thorough analysis prom-
ises safety of principal and an adequate return. Operations notmeeting these requirements are speculative.”
While we have clung tenaciously to this definition over the
ensuing 38 years, it is worthwhile noting the radical changes thathave occurred in the use of the term “investor” during this period.
After the great market decline of 1929–1932 allcommon stocks
were widely regarded as speculative by nature. (A leading author-
ity stated flatly that only bonds could be bought for investment.
2)
Thus we had then to defend our definition against the charge that
it gave too wide scope to the concept of investment.
Now our concern is of the opposite sort. We must prevent our
readers from accepting the common jargon which applies the term
“investor” to anybody and everybody in the stock market. In ourlast edition we cited the following headline of a front-page articleof our leading financial journal in June 1962:
18SMALL INVESTORS BEARISH, THEY ARE SELLING ODD-LOTS SHORT
In October 1970 the same journal had an editorial critical of what it
called “reckless investors,” who this time were rushing in on thebuying side.
These quotations well illustrate the confusion that has been
dominant for many years in the use of the words investment andspeculation. Think of our suggested definition of investment given
above, and compare it with the sale of a few shares of stock by aninexperienced member of the public, who does not even own whathe is selling, and has some largely emotional conviction that hewill be able to buy them back at a much lower price. (It is not irrel-
evant to point out that when the 1962 article appeared the markethad already experienced a decline of major size, and was now get-
ting ready for an even greater upswing. It was about as poor a time
as possible for selling short.) In a more general sense, the later-usedphrase “reckless investors” could be regarded as a laughable con-
tradiction in terms—something like “spendthrift misers”—were
this misuse of language not so mischievous.
The newspaper employed the word “investor” in these
instances because, in the easy language of Wall Street, everyonewho buys or sells a security has become an investor, regardless ofwhat he buys, or for what purpose, or at what price, or whether for
cash or on margin. Compare this with the attitude of the public
toward common stocks in 1948, when over 90% of those queriedexpressed themselves as opposed to the purchase of common
stocks.
3About half gave as their reason “not safe, a gamble,” and
about half, the reason “not familiar with.”* It is indeed ironicalInvestment versus Speculation 19
* The survey Graham cites was conducted for the Fed by the University of
Michigan and was published in the Federal Reserve Bulletin, July, 1948.
People were asked, “Suppose a man decides not to spend his money. Hecan either put it in a bank or in bonds or he can invest it. What do you thinkwould be the wisest thing for him to do with the money nowadays—put it inthe bank, buy savings bonds with it, invest it in real estate, or buy commonstock with it?” Only 4% thought common stock would offer a “satisfactory”return; 26% considered it “not safe” or a “gamble. ” From 1949 through1958, the stock market earned one of its highest 10-year returns in history,(though not surprising) that common-stock purchases of all kinds
were quite generally regarded as highly speculative or risky at a
time when they were selling on a most attractive basis, and due
soon to begin their greatest advance in history; conversely the veryfact they had advanced to what were undoubtedly dangerous lev-els as judged by past experience later transformed them into “invest-
ments,” and the entire stock-buying public into “investors.”
The distinction between investment and speculation in common
stocks has always been a useful one and its disappearance is acause for concern. We have often said that Wall Street as an institu-tion would be well advised to reinstate this distinction and to
emphasize it in all its dealings with the public. Otherwise the stock
exchanges may some day be blamed for heavy speculative losses,which those who suffered them had not been properly warnedagainst. Ironically, once more, much of the recent financial embar-rassment of some stock-exchange firms seems to have come fromthe inclusion of speculative common stocks in their own capital
funds. We trust that the reader of this book will gain a reasonably
clear idea of the risks that are inherent in common-stock commit-ments—risks which are inseparable from the opportunities of
profit that they offer, and both of which must be allowed for in the
investor’s calculations.
What we have just said indicates that there may no longer be
such a thing as a simon-pure investment policy comprising repre-sentative common stocks—in the sense that one can always wait tobuy them at a price that involves no risk of a market or “quota-
tional” loss large enough to be disquieting. In most periods theinvestor must recognize the existence of a speculative factor in his
common-stock holdings. It is his task to keep this componentwithin minor limits, and to be prepared financially and psycholog-
ically for adverse results that may be of short or long duration.
Two paragraphs should be added about stock speculation per
se, as distinguished from the speculative component now inherent20 The Intelligent Investor
averaging 18.7% annually. In a fascinating echo of that early Fed survey, a
poll conducted by BusinessWeek at year-end 2002 found that only 24% of
investors were willing to invest more in their mutual funds or stock portfolios,down from 47% just three years earlier.in most representative common stocks. Outright speculation is 
neither illegal, immoral, nor (for most people) fattening to the
pocketbook. More than that, some speculation is necessary and
unavoidable, for in many common-stock situations there are sub-stantial possibilities of both profit and loss, and the risks thereinmust be assumed by someone.* There is intelligent speculation asthere is intelligent investing. But there are many ways in whichspeculation may be unintelligent. Of these the foremost are: (1)
speculating when you think you are investing; (2) speculating seri-
ously instead of as a pastime, when you lack proper knowledgeand skill for it; and (3) risking more money in speculation than you
can afford to lose.
In our conservative view every nonprofessional who operates
on margin † should recognize that he is ipso facto speculating, and it
is his broker’s duty so to advise him. And everyone who buys aso-called “hot” common-stock issue, or makes a purchase in any
way similar thereto, is either speculating or gambling. Speculation
is always fascinating, and it can be a lot of fun while you are ahead
of the game. If you want to try your luck at it, put aside a portion—the smaller the better—of your capital in a separate fund for this
purpose. Never add more money to this account just because theInvestment versus Speculation 21
* Speculation is beneficial on two levels: First, without speculation, untested
new companies (like Amazon.com or, in earlier times, the Edison Electric
Light Co.) would never be able to raise the necessary capital for expansion.
The alluring, long-shot chance of a huge gain is the grease that lubricatesthe machinery of innovation. Secondly, risk is exchanged (but never elimi-
nated) every time a stock is bought or sold. The buyer purchases the primary
risk that this stock may go down. Meanwhile, the seller still retains a residualrisk—the chance that the stock he just sold may go up!
† A margin account enables you to buy stocks using money you borrow
from the brokerage firm. By investing with borrowed money, you make morewhen your stocks go up—but you can be wiped out when they go down. The
collateral for the loan is the value of the investments in your account—so you
must put up more money if that value falls below the amount you borrowed.For more information about margin accounts, see www.sec.gov/ investor/
pubs/margin.htm, www.sia.com/publications/pdf/MarginsA .pdf, and www.
nyse.com/pdfs/2001_factbook_09.pdf.market has gone up and profits are rolling in. (That’s the time to
think of taking money outof your speculative fund.) Never mingle
your speculative and investment operations in the same account,nor in any part of your thinking.
Results to Be Expected by the Defensive Investor
We have already defined the defensive investor as one inter-
ested chiefly in safety plus freedom from bother. In general whatcourse should he follow and what return can he expect under“average normal conditions”—if such conditions really exist? Toanswer these questions we shall consider first what we wrote onthe subject seven years ago, next what significant changes haveoccurred since then in the underlying factors governing theinvestor’s expectable return, and finally what he should do and
what he should expect under present-day (early 1972) conditions.
1. What We Said Six Years Ago
We recommended that the investor divide his holdings between
high-grade bonds and leading common stocks; that the proportion
held in bonds be never less than 25% or more than 75%, with theconverse being necessarily true for the common-stock component;that his simplest choice would be to maintain a 50–50 proportionbetween the two, with adjustments to restore the equality whenmarket developments had disturbed it by as much as, say, 5%. Asan alternative policy he might choose to reduce his common-stock
component to 25% “if he felt the market was dangerously high,”
and conversely to advance it toward the maximum of 75% “if hefelt that a decline in stock prices was making them increasingly
attractive.”
In 1965 the investor could obtain about 4
1⁄2% on high-grade tax-
able bonds and 31⁄4% on good tax-free bonds. The dividend return
on leading common stocks (with the DJIA at 892) was only about3.2%. This fact, and others, suggested caution. We implied that “at
normal levels of the market” the investor should be able to obtainan initial dividend return of between 3
1⁄2% and 41⁄2% on his stock
purchases, to which should be added a steady increase in underly-ing value (and in the “normal market price”) of a representative22 The Intelligent Investorstock list of about the same amount, giving a return from divi-
dends and appreciation combined of about 71⁄2% per year. The half
and half division between bonds and stocks would yield about 6%before income tax. We added that the stock component shouldcarry a fair degree of protection against a loss of purchasing powercaused by large-scale inflation.
It should be pointed out that the above arithmetic indicated
expectation of a much lower rate of advance in the stock marketthan had been realized between 1949 and 1964. That rate had aver-
aged a good deal better than 10% for listed stocks as a whole, and it
was quite generally regarded as a sort of guarantee that similarlysatisfactory results could be counted on in the future. Few people
were willing to consider seriously the possibility that the high rate
of advance in the past means that stock prices are “now too high,”and hence that “the wonderful results since 1949 would imply notvery good but badresults for the future.”
4
2. What Has Happened Since 1964
The major change since 1964 has been the rise in interest rates on
first-grade bonds to record high levels, although there has sincebeen a considerable recovery from the lowest prices of 1970. Theobtainable return on good corporate issues is now about 7
1⁄2% and
even more against 41⁄2% in 1964. In the meantime the dividend
return on DJIA-type stocks had a fair advance also during the mar-ket decline of 1969–70, but as we write (with “the Dow” at 900) it isless than 3.5% against 3.2% at the end of 1964. The change in goinginterest rates produced a maximum decline of about 38% in themarket price of medium-term (say 20-year) bonds during this
period.
There is a paradoxical aspect to these developments. In 1964 we
discussed at length the possibility that the price of stocks might betoo high and subject ultimately to a serious decline; but we did not
consider specifically the possibility that the same might happen to
the price of high-grade bonds. (Neither did anyone else that we
know of.) We did warn (on p. 90) that “a long-term bond may varywidely in price in response to changes in interest rates.” In the lightof what has since happened we think that this warning—withattendant examples—was insufficiently stressed. For the fact is thatInvestment versus Speculation 23if the investor had a given sum in the DJIA at its closing price of
874 in 1964 he would have had a small profit thereon in late 1971;
even at the lowest level (631) in 1970 his indicated loss would have
been less than that shown on good long-term bonds. On the otherhand, if he had confined his bond-type investments to U.S. savingsbonds, short-term corporate issues, or savings accounts, he wouldhave had no loss in market value of his principal during this periodand he would have enjoyed a higher income return than was
offered by good stocks. It turned out, therefore, that true “cash
equivalents” proved to be better investments in 1964 than commonstocks—in spite of the inflation experience that in theory should
have favored stocks over cash. The decline in quoted principal
value of good longer-term bonds was due to developments in themoney market, an abstruse area which ordinarily does not have animportant bearing on the investment policy of individuals.
This is just another of an endless series of experiences over time
that have demonstrated that the future of security prices is never
predictable.* Almost always bonds have fluctuated much less than
stock prices, and investors generally could buy good bonds of anymaturity without having to worry about changes in their market
value. There were a few exceptions to this rule, and the period after
1964 proved to be one of them. We shall have more to say aboutchange in bond prices in a later chapter.
3. Expectations and Policy in Late 1971 and Early 1972
Toward the end of 1971 it was possible to obtain 8% taxable
interest on good medium-term corporate bonds, and 5.7% tax-free
on good state or municipal securities. In the shorter-term field the
investor could realize about 6% on U.S. government issues due in
five years. In the latter case the buyer need not be concerned about24 The Intelligent Investor
* Read Graham’s sentence again, and note what this greatest of investing 
experts is saying: The future of security prices is never predictable. And asyou read ahead in the book, notice how everything else Graham tells you isdesigned to help you grapple with that truth. Since you cannot predict thebehavior of the markets, you must learn how to predict and control your ownbehavior.a possible loss in market value, since he is sure of full repayment,
including the 6% interest return, at the end of a comparatively
short holding period. The DJIA at its recurrent price level of 900 in
1971 yields only 3.5%.
Let us assume that now, as in the past, the basic policy decision
to be made is how to divide the fund between high-grade bonds(or other so-called “cash equivalents”) and leading DJIA-typestocks. What course should the investor follow under present con-
ditions, if we have no strong reason to predict either a significant
upward or a significant downward movement for some time in thefuture? First let us point out that if there is no serious adverse
change, the defensive investor should be able to count on the cur-
rent 3.5% dividend return on his stocks and also on an average
annual appreciation of about 4%. As we shall explain later thisappreciation is based essentially on the reinvestment by the vari-ous companies of a corresponding amount annually out of undis-tributed profits. On a before-tax basis the combined return of his
stocks would then average, say, 7.5%, somewhat less than his inter-
est on high-grade bonds.* On an after-tax basis the average returnon stocks would work out at some 5.3%.
5This would be about the
same as is now obtainable on good tax-free medium-term bonds.
These expectations are much less favorable for stocks against
bonds than they were in our 1964 analysis. (That conclusion fol-lows inevitably from the basic fact that bond yields have gone up
much more than stock yields since 1964.) We must never lose sightInvestment versus Speculation 25
* How well did Graham’s forecast pan out? At first blush, it seems, very
well: From the beginning of 1972 through the end of 1981, stocks earned
an annual average return of 6.5%. (Graham did not specify the time period
for his forecast, but it’s plausible to assume that he was thinking of a 10-year time horizon.) However, inflation raged at 8.6% annually over this
period, eating up the entire gain that stocks produced. In this section of his
chapter, Graham is summarizing what is known as the “Gordon equation, ”which essentially holds that the stock market’s future return is the sum of thecurrent dividend yield plus expected earnings growth. With a dividend yieldof just under 2% in early 2003, and long-term earnings growth of around2%, plus inflation at a bit over 2%, a future average annual return of roughly6% is plausible. (See the commentary on Chapter 3.)of the fact that the interest and principal payments on good bonds
are much better protected and therefore more certain than the divi-
dends and price appreciation on stocks. Consequently we are
forced to the conclusion that now, toward the end of 1971, bondinvestment appears clearly preferable to stock investment. If wecould be sure that this conclusion is right we would have to advisethe defensive investor to put allhis money in bonds and none in
common stocks until the current yield relationship changes signifi-
cantly in favor of stocks.
But of course we cannot be certain that bonds will work out bet-
ter than stocks from today’s levels. The reader will immediatelythink of the inflation factor as a potent reason on the other side. In
the next chapter we shall argue that our considerable experiencewith inflation in the United States during this century would notsupport the choice of stocks against bonds at present differentialsin yield. But there is always the possibility—though we consider itremote—of an accelerating inflation, which in one way or another
would have to make stock equities preferable to bonds payable in a
fixed amount of dollars.* There is the alternative possibility—which we also consider highly unlikely—that American business
will become so profitable, without stepped-up inflation, as to jus-
tify a large increase in common-stock values in the next few years.Finally, there is the more familiar possibility that we shall witness
another great speculative rise in the stock market without a real
justification in the underlying values. Any of these reasons, andperhaps others we haven’t thought of, might cause the investor to
regret a 100% concentration on bonds even at their more favorable
yield levels.
Hence, after this foreshortened discussion of the major consider-
ations, we once again enunciate the same basic compromise policy26 The Intelligent Investor
* Since 1997 , when Treasury Inflation-Protected Securities (or TIPS) were
introduced, stocks have no longer been the automatically superior choice
for investors who expect inflation to increase. TIPS, unlike other bonds, rise
in value if the Consumer Price Index goes up, effectively immunizing theinvestor against losing money after inflation. Stocks carry no such guaranteeand, in fact, are a relatively poor hedge against high rates of inflation. (Formore details, see the commentary to Chapter 2.)for defensive investors—namely that at all times they have a signif-
icant part of their funds in bond-type holdings and a significant
part also in equities. It is still true that they may choose between
maintaining a simple 50–50 division between the two componentsor a ratio, dependent on their judgment, varying between a mini-mum of 25% and a maximum of 75% of either. We shall give ourmore detailed view of these alternative policies in a later chapter.
Since at present the overall return envisaged from common stocks
is nearly the same as that from bonds, the presently expectablereturn (including growth of stock values) for the investor wouldchange little regardless of how he divides his fund between the
two components. As calculated above, the aggregate return from
both parts should be about 7.8% before taxes or 5.5% on a tax-free(or estimated tax-paid) basis. A return of this order is appreciablyhigher than that realized by the typical conservative investor overmost of the long-term past. It may not seem attractive in relation tothe 14%, or so, return shown by common stocks during the 20
years of the predominantly bull market after 1949. But it should be
remembered that between 1949 and 1969 the price of the DJIA hadadvanced more than fivefold while its earnings and dividends had
about doubled. Hence the greater part of the impressive market
record for that period was based on a change in investors’ andspeculators’ attitudes rather than in underlying corporate values.
To that extent it might well be called a “bootstrap operation.”
In discussing the common-stock portfolio of the defensive
investor, we have spoken only of leading issues of the type
included in the 30 components of the Dow Jones Industrial Aver-age. We have done this for convenience, and not to imply that these30 issues alone are suitable for purchase by him. Actually, there are
many other companies of quality equal to or excelling the average
of the Dow Jones list; these would include a host of public utilities(which have a separate Dow Jones average to represent them).* ButInvestment versus Speculation 27
* Today, the most widely available alternatives to the Dow Jones Industrial
Average are the Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index (the “S & P”) and theWilshire 5000 index. The S & P focuses on 500 large, well-known compa-nies that make up roughly 70% of the total value of the U.S. equity market.The Wilshire 5000 follows the returns of nearly every significant, publiclythe major point here is that the defensive investor’s overall results
are not likely to be decisively different from one diversified or rep-
resentative list than from another, or—more accurately—that nei-
ther he nor his advisers could predict with certainty whateverdifferences would ultimately develop. It is true that the art of skill-ful or shrewd investment is supposed to lie particularly in theselection of issues that will give better results than the general mar-ket. For reasons to be developed elsewhere we are skeptical of the
ability of defensive investors generally to get better than average
results—which in fact would mean to beat their own overall per-formance.* (Our skepticism extends to the management of large
funds by experts.)
Let us illustrate our point by an example that at first may seem
to prove the opposite. Between December 1960 and December 1970
the DJIA advanced from 616 to 839, or 36%. But in the same periodthe much larger Standard & Poor’s weighted index of 500 stocksrose from 58.11 to 92.15, or 58%. Obviously the second group had
proved a better “buy” than the first. But who would have been so
rash as to predict in 1960 that what seemed like a miscellaneousassortment of all sorts of common stocks would definitely outper-
form the aristocratic “thirty tyrants” of the Dow? All this proves,
we insist, that only rarely can one make dependable predictionsabout price changes, absolute or relative.
We shall repeat here without apology—for the warning cannot
be given too often—that the investor cannot hope for better thanaverage results by buying new offerings, or “hot” issues of any
sort, meaning thereby those recommended for a quick profit.† Thecontrary is almost certain to be true in the long run. The defensive
investor must confine himself to the shares of important companies
with a long record of profitable operations and in strong financial
condition. (Any security analyst worth his salt could make up such28 The Intelligent Investor
traded stock in America, roughly 6,700 in all; but, since the largest compa-
nies account for most of the total value of the index, the return of the
Wilshire 5000 is usually quite similar to that of the S & P 500. Several low-cost mutual funds enable investors to hold the stocks in these indexes as asingle, convenient portfolio. (See Chapter 9.)* See pp. 363–366 and pp. 376–380.† For greater detail, see Chapter 6.a list.) Aggressive investors may buy other types of common
stocks, but they should be on a definitely attractive basis as estab-
lished by intelligent analysis.
To conclude this section, let us mention briefly three supplemen-
tary concepts or practices for the defensive investor. The first is the
purchase of the shares of well-established investment funds as analternative to creating his own common-stock portfolio. He mightalso utilize one of the “common trust funds,” or “commingled
funds,” operated by trust companies and banks in many states; or,
if his funds are substantial, use the services of a recognized invest-ment-counsel firm. This will give him professional administration
of his investment program along standard lines. The third is the
device of “dollar-cost averaging,” which means simply that thepractitioner invests in common stocks the same number of dollarseach month or each quarter. In this way he buys more shares whenthe market is low than when it is high, and he is likely to end upwith a satisfactory overall price for all his holdings. Strictly speak-
ing, this method is an application of a broader approach known as
“formula investing.” The latter was already alluded to in our sug-gestion that the investor may vary his holdings of common stocks
between the 25% minimum and the 75% maximum, in inverse rela-
tionship to the action of the market. These ideas have merit for thedefensive investor, and they will be discussed more amply in later
chapters.*
Results to Be Expected by the Aggressive Investor
Our enterprising security buyer, of course, will desire and
expect to attain better overall results than his defensive or passivecompanion. But first he must make sure that his results will not be
worse. It is no difficult trick to bring a great deal of energy, study,and native ability into Wall Street and to end up with losses instead
of profits. These virtues, if channeled in the wrong directions,
become indistinguishable from handicaps. Thus it is most essentialthat the enterprising investor start with a clear conception as toInvestment versus Speculation 29
* For more advice on “well-established investment funds, ” see Chapter 9.
“Professional administration” by “a recognized investment-counsel firm” isdiscussed in Chapter 10. “Dollar-cost averaging” is explained in Chapter 5.which courses of action offer reasonable chances of success and
which do not.
First let us consider several ways in which investors and specu-
lators generally have endeavored to obtain better than averageresults. These include:
1.Trading in the market. This usually means buying stocks
when the market has been advancing and selling them after it hasturned downward. The stocks selected are likely to be among thosewhich have been “behaving” better than the market average. Asmall number of professionals frequently engage in short selling.
Here they will sell issues they do not own but borrow through the
established mechanism of the stock exchanges. Their object is tobenefit from a subsequent decline in the price of these issues, by
buying them back at a price lower than they sold them for. (As our
quotation from the Wall Street Journal on p. 19 indicates, even
“small investors”—perish the term!—sometimes try their unskilledhand at short selling.)
2.Short-term selectivity. This means buying stocks of compa-
nies which are reporting or expected to report increased earnings,
or for which some other favorable development is anticipated.
3.Long-term selectivity . Here the usual emphasis is on an
excellent record of past growth, which is considered likely to con-
tinue in the future. In some cases also the “investor” may choosecompanies which have not yet shown impressive results, but are
expected to establish a high earning power later. (Such companies
belong frequently in some technological area—e.g., computers,drugs, electronics—and they often are developing new processes
or products that are deemed to be especially promising.)
We have already expressed a negative view about the investor’s
overall chances of success in these areas of activity. The first we
have ruled out, on both theoretical and realistic grounds, from thedomain of investment. Stock trading is not an operation “which, onthorough analysis, offers safety of principal and a satisfactoryreturn.” More will be said on stock trading in a later chapter.*30 The Intelligent Investor
* See Chapter 8.In his endeavor to select the most promising stocks either for the
near term or the longer future, the investor faces obstacles of two
kinds—the first stemming from human fallibility and the second
from the nature of his competition. He may be wrong in his esti-mate of the future; or even if he is right, the current market pricemay already fully reflect what he is anticipating. In the area ofnear-term selectivity, the current year’s results of the company aregenerally common property on Wall Street; next year’s results, to
the extent they are predictable, are already being carefully consid-
ered. Hence the investor who selects issues chiefly on the basis ofthis year’s superior results, or on what he is told he may expect for
next year, is likely to find that others have done the same thing for
the same reason.
In choosing stocks for their long-term prospects, the investor’s
handicaps are basically the same. The possibility of outright error
in the prediction—which we illustrated by our airlines example on
p. 6—is no doubt greater than when dealing with near-term earn-
ings. Because the experts frequently go astray in such forecasts, it is
theoretically possible for an investor to benefit greatly by makingcorrect predictions when Wall Street as a whole is making incorrect
ones. But that is only theoretical. How many enterprising investors
could count on having the acumen or prophetic gift to beat the pro-fessional analysts at their favorite game of estimating long-term
future earnings?
We are thus led to the following logical if disconcerting conclu-
sion: To enjoy a reasonable chance for continued better than average
results, the investor must follow policies which are (1) inherentlysound and promising, and (2) not popular on Wall Street.
Are there any such policies available for the enterprising
investor? In theory once again, the answer should be yes; and thereare broad reasons to think that the answer should be affirmative inpractice as well. Everyone knows that speculative stock move-
ments are carried too far in both directions, frequently in the gen-
eral market and at all times in at least some of the individualissues. Furthermore, a common stock may be undervalued becauseof lack of interest or unjustified popular prejudice. We can go fur-ther and assert that in an astonishingly large proportion of thetrading in common stocks, those engaged therein don’t appear toknow—in polite terms—one part of their anatomy from another. Inthis book we shall point out numerous examples of (past) dis-Investment versus Speculation 31crepancies between price and value. Thus it seems that any intelli-
gent person, with a good head for figures, should have a veritable
picnic on Wall Street, battening off other people’s foolishness. So it
seems, but somehow it doesn’t work out that simply. Buying a neg-lected and therefore undervalued issue for profit generally provesa protracted and patience-trying experience. And selling short atoo popular and therefore overvalued issue is apt to be a test notonly of one’s courage and stamina but also of the depth of one’s
pocketbook.* The principle is sound, its successful application is
not impossible, but it is distinctly not an easy art to master.
There is also a fairly wide group of “special situations,” which
over many years could be counted on to bring a nice annual returnof 20% or better, with a minimum of overall risk to those who knewtheir way around in this field. They include intersecurity arbi-trages, payouts or workouts in liquidations, protected hedges ofcertain kinds. The most typical case is a projected merger or acqui-sition which offers a substantially higher value for certain shares
than their price on the date of the announcement. The number of
such deals increased greatly in recent years, and it should havebeen a highly profitable period for the cognoscenti. But with the
multiplication of merger announcements came a multiplication of
obstacles to mergers and of deals that didn’t go through; quite afew individual losses were thus realized in these once-reliable
operations. Perhaps, too, the overall rate of profit was diminished
by too much competition.†32 The Intelligent Investor
* In “selling short” (or “shorting”) a stock, you make a bet that its share 
price will go down, not up. Shorting is a three-step process: First, you bor-
row shares from someone who owns them; then you immediately sell the
borrowed shares; finally, you replace them with shares you buy later. If thestock drops, you will be able to buy your replacement shares at a lower
price. The difference between the price at which you sold your borrowed
shares and the price you paid for the replacement shares is your gross profit(reduced by dividend or interest charges, along with brokerage costs). How-ever, if the stock goes up in price instead of down, your potential loss isunlimited—making short sales unacceptably speculative for most individualinvestors.† In the late 1980s, as hostile corporate takeovers and leveraged buyoutsmultiplied, Wall Street set up institutional arbitrage desks to profit from anyThe lessened profitability of these special situations appears one
manifestation of a kind of self-destructive process—akin to the law
of diminishing returns—which has developed during the lifetime
of this book. In 1949 we could present a study of stock-market fluc-tuations over the preceding 75 years, which supported a formula—based on earnings and current interest rates—for determining alevel to buy the DJIA below its “central” or “intrinsic” value, and to sell out above such value. It was an application of the gov-
erning maxim of the Rothschilds: “Buy cheap and sell dear.”* And
it had the advantage of running directly counter to the ingrainedand pernicious maxim of Wall Street that stocks should be bought
because they have gone up and sold because they have gone down.
Alas, after 1949 this formula no longer worked. A second illustra-tion is provided by the famous “Dow Theory” of stock-marketmovements, in a comparison of its indicated splendid results for1897–1933 and its much more questionable performance since1934.
A third and final example of the golden opportunities not
recently available: A good part of our own operations on WallStreet had been concentrated on the purchase of bargain issues eas-
ily identified as such by the fact that they were selling at less thantheir share in the net current assets (working capital) alone, notcounting the plant account and other assets, and after deducting all
liabilities ahead of the stock. It is clear that these issues were selling
at a price well below the value of the enterprise as a private busi-ness. No proprietor or majority holder would think of selling what
he owned at so ridiculously low a figure. Strangely enough, suchInvestment versus Speculation 33
errors in pricing these complex deals. They became so good at it that the
easy profits disappeared and many of these desks have been closed down.
Although Graham does discuss it again (see pp. 174–175), this sort of trad-
ing is no longer feasible or appropriate for most people, since only multi-million-dollar trades are large enough to generate worthwhile profits.
Wealthy individuals and institutions can utilize this strategy through hedge
funds that specialize in merger or “event” arbitrage.* The Rothschild family, led by Nathan Mayer Rothschild, was the dominantpower in European investment banking and brokerage in the nineteenthcentury. For a brilliant history, see Niall Ferguson, The House of Rothschild:
Money’s Prophets, 1798–1848 (Viking, 1998).anomalies were not hard to find. In 1957 a list was published show-
ing nearly 200 issues of this type available in the market. In various
ways practically all these bargain issues turned out to be profitable,
and the average annual result proved much more remunerativethan most other investments. But they too virtually disappearedfrom the stock market in the next decade, and with them a depend-able area for shrewd and successful operation by the enterprisinginvestor. However, at the low prices of 1970 there again appeared a
considerable number of such “sub-working-capital” issues, and
despite the strong recovery of the market, enough of themremained at the end of the year to make up a full-sized portfolio.
The enterprising investor under today’s conditions still has vari-
ous possibilities of achieving better than average results. The hugelist of marketable securities must include a fair number that can beidentified as undervalued by logical and reasonably dependablestandards. These should yield more satisfactory results on theaverage than will the DJIA or any similarly representative list. In
our view the search for these would not be worth the investor’s
effort unless he could hope to add, say, 5% before taxes to the aver-age annual return from the stock portion of his portfolio. We shall
try to develop one or more such approaches to stock selection for
use by the active investor.34 The Intelligent InvestorCOMMENTARY ON C HAPTER 1
All of human unhappiness comes from one single thing: not
knowing how to remain at rest in a room.
—Blaise Pascal
Why do you suppose the brokers on the floor of the New York Stock
Exchange always cheer at the sound of the closing bell—no matter
what the market did that day? Because whenever you trade, they
make money—whether you did or not. By speculating instead of invest-
ing, you lower your own odds of building wealth and raise someone
else’s.
Graham’s definition of investing could not be clearer: “An invest-
ment operation is one which, upon thorough analysis, promises safetyof principal and an adequate return. ”
1Note that investing, according to
Graham, consists equally of three elements:
• you must thoroughly analyze a company, and the soundness of its
underlying businesses, before you buy its stock;
• you must deliberately protect yourself against serious losses;
• you must aspire to “adequate, ” not extraordinary, performance.
351Graham goes even further, fleshing out each of the key terms in his defini-
tion: “thorough analysis” means “the study of the facts in the light of estab-
lished standards of safety and value” while “safety of principal” signifies
“protection against loss under all normal or reasonably likely conditions orvariations” and “adequate” (or “satisfactory”) return refers to “any rate oramount of return, however low, which the investor is willing to accept, pro-vided he acts with reasonable intelligence. ” ( Security Analysis, 1934 ed.,
pp. 55–56).An investor calculates what a stock is worth, based on the value of
its businesses. A speculator gambles that a stock will go up in price
because somebody else will pay even more for it. As Graham onceput it, investors judge “the market price by established standards ofvalue, ” while speculators “base [their] standards of value upon the
market price. ”
2For a speculator, the incessant stream of stock quotes
is like oxygen; cut it off and he dies. For an investor, what Grahamcalled “quotational” values matter much less. Graham urges you toinvest only if you would be comfortable owning a stock even if you hadno way of knowing its daily share price.
3
Like casino gambling or betting on the horses, speculating in the
market can be exciting or even rewarding (if you happen to get lucky).But it’s the worst imaginable way to build your wealth. That’s becauseWall Street, like Las Vegas or the racetrack, has calibrated the odds
so that the house always prevails, in the end, against everyone whotries to beat the house at its own speculative game.
On the other hand, investing is a unique kind of casino—one where
you cannot lose in the end, so long as you play only by the rules that
put the odds squarely in your favor. People who invest make money for
themselves; people who speculate make money for their brokers. And
that, in turn, is why Wall Street perennially downplays the durablevirtues of investing and hypes the gaudy appeal of speculation.
UNSAFE AT HIGH SPEED
Confusing speculation with investment, Graham warns, is always a
mistake. In the 1990s, that confusion led to mass destruction. Almost
everyone, it seems, ran out of patience at once, and America becamethe Speculation Nation, populated with traders who went shooting
from stock to stock like grasshoppers whizzing around in an August
hay field.
People began believing that the test of an investment technique
was simply whether it “worked. ” If they beat the market over any36 Commentary on Chapter 1
2Security Analysis, 1934 ed., p. 310.
3As Graham advised in an interview, “Ask yourself: If there was no market
for these shares, would I be willing to have an investment in this company on
these terms?” ( Forbes, January 1, 1972, p. 90.)period, no matter how dangerous or dumb their tactics, people
boasted that they were “right. ” But the intelligent investor has no inter-est in being temporarily right. To reach your long-term financial goals,you must be sustainably and reliably right. The techniques thatbecame so trendy in the 1990s—day trading, ignoring diversification,
flipping hot mutual funds, following stock-picking “systems”—seemedto work. But they had no chance of prevailing in the long run, because
they failed to meet all three of Graham’s criteria for investing.
To see why temporarily high returns don’t prove anything, imagine
that two places are 130 miles apart. If I observe the 65-mph speed
limit, I can drive that distance in two hours. But if I drive 130 mph, Ican get there in one hour. If I try this and survive, am I “right”? Shouldyou be tempted to try it, too, because you hear me bragging that it“worked”? Flashy gimmicks for beating the market are much thesame: In short streaks, so long as your luck holds out, they work. Overtime, they will get you killed.
In 1973, when Graham last revised The Intelligent Investor, the
annual turnover rate on the New York Stock Exchange was 20%,meaning that the typical shareholder held a stock for five years before
selling it. By 2002, the turnover rate had hit 105%—a holding period of
only 11.4 months. Back in 1973, the average mutual fund held on to astock for nearly three years; by 2002, that ownership period had
shrunk to just 10.9 months. It’s as if mutual-fund managers were
studying their stocks just long enough to learn they shouldn’t havebought them in the first place, then promptly dumping them and start-
ing all over.
Even the most respected money-management firms got antsy. In
early 1995, Jeffrey Vinik, manager of Fidelity Magellan (then theworld’s largest mutual fund), had 42.5% of its assets in technology
stocks. Vinik proclaimed that most of his shareholders “have investedin the fund for goals that are years away ....I  think their objectives are
the same as mine, and that they believe, as I do, that a long-termapproach is best. ” But six months after he wrote those high-mindedwords, Vinik sold off almost all his technology shares, unloading nearly$19 billion worth in eight frenzied weeks. So much for the “long term”!And by 1999, Fidelity’s discount brokerage division was egging on itsclients to trade anywhere, anytime, using a Palm handheld computer—which was perfectly in tune with the firm’s new slogan, “Every secondcounts. ”Commentary on Chapter 1 37And on the NASDAQ exchange, turnover hit warp speed, as Fig-
ure 1-1 shows.4
In 1999, shares in Puma Technology, for instance, changed hands
an average of once every 5.7 days. Despite NASDAQ’s grandiose
motto—“The Stock Market for the Next Hundred Years”—many of itscustomers could barely hold on to a stock for a hundred hours.
THE FINANCIAL VIDEO GAME
Wall Street made online trading sound like an instant way to mint
money: Discover Brokerage, the online arm of the venerable firm of38 Commentary on Chapter 1
Stocks on Speed
0510152025
DoubleClickCMGI
Amazon.come*Trade Inktomi
RealNetworksQualcommBroadVisionVeriSign
Puma TechnologyAverage length of ownership (in days)
4Source: Steve Galbraith, Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. research report, Jan-
uary 10, 2000. The stocks in this table had an average return of 1196.4% in
1999. They lost an average of 79.1% in 2000, 35.5% in 2001, and 44.5%in 2002—destroying all the gains of 1999, and then some.FIGURE 1-1Morgan Stanley, ran a TV commercial in which a scruffy tow-truck
driver picks up a prosperous-looking executive. Spotting a photo of atropical beachfront posted on the dashboard, the executive asks,“Vacation?” “Actually, ” replies the driver, “that’s my home. ” Takenaback, the suit says, “Looks like an island. ” With quiet triumph, the
driver answers, “Technically, it’s a country. ”
The propaganda went further. Online trading would take no work
and require no thought. A television ad from Ameritrade, the onlinebroker, showed two housewives just back from jogging; one logs onto her computer, clicks the mouse a few times, and exults, “I think I just
made about $1,700!” In a TV commercial for the Waterhouse broker-age firm, someone asked basketball coach Phil Jackson, “You knowanything about the trade?” His answer: “I’m going to make it rightnow. ” (How many games would Jackson’s NBA teams have won if hehad brought that philosophy to courtside? Somehow, knowing noth-
ing about the other team, but saying, “I’m ready to play them right
now, ” doesn’t sound like a championship formula.)
By 1999 at least six million people were trading online—and roughly
a tenth of them were “day trading, ” using the Internet to buy and sellstocks at lightning speed. Everyone from showbiz diva Barbra
Streisand to Nicholas Birbas, a 25-year-old former waiter in Queens,New York, was flinging stocks around like live coals. “Before, ” scoffed
Birbas, “I was investing for the long term and I found out that it was not
smart. ” Now, Birbas traded stocks up to 10 times a day and expectedto earn $100,000 in a year. “I can’t stand to see red in my profit-or-loss
column, ” Streisand shuddered in an interview with Fortune. “I’m Taurus
the bull, so I react to red. If I see red, I sell my stocks quickly. ”
5
By pouring continuous data about stocks into bars and barber-
shops, kitchens and cafés, taxicabs and truck stops, financial web-
sites and financial TV turned the stock market into a nonstop nationalvideo game. The public felt more knowledgeable about the markets
than ever before. Unfortunately, while people were drowning in data,
knowledge was nowhere to be found. Stocks became entirely decou-Commentary on Chapter 1 39
5Instead of stargazing, Streisand should have been channeling Graham.
The intelligent investor never dumps a stock purely because its share price
has fallen; she always asks first whether the value of the company’s underly-ing businesses has changed.pled from the companies that had issued them—pure abstractions, just
blips moving across a TV or computer screen. If the blips were movingup, nothing else mattered.
On December 20, 1999, Juno Online Services unveiled a trailblaz-
ing business plan: to lose as much money as possible, on purpose.
Juno announced that it would henceforth offer all its retail services forfree—no charge for e-mail, no charge for Internet access—and that it
would spend millions of dollars more on advertising over the next year.
On this declaration of corporate hara-kiri, Juno’s stock roared up from$16.375 to $66.75 in two days.
6
Why bother learning whether a business was profitable, or what
goods or services a company produced, or who its management was,or even what the company’s name was? All you needed to knowabout stocks was the catchy code of their ticker symbols: CBLT, INKT,
PCLN, TGLO, VRSN, WBVN.
7That way you could buy them even
faster, without the pesky two-second delay of looking them up on an
Internet search engine. In late 1998, the stock of a tiny, rarely tradedbuilding-maintenance company, Temco Services, nearly tripled in a
matter of minutes on record-high volume. Why? In a bizarre form offinancial dyslexia, thousands of traders bought Temco after mistaking
its ticker symbol, TMCO, for that of Ticketmaster Online (TMCS), an
Internet darling whose stock began trading publicly for the first time
that day.
8
Oscar Wilde joked that a cynic “knows the price of everything, and
the value of nothing. ” Under that definition, the stock market is alwayscynical, but by the late 1990s it would have shocked Oscar himself. Asingle half-baked opinion on price could double a company’s stock
even as its value went entirely unexamined. In late 1998, Henry Blod-
get, an analyst at CIBC Oppenheimer, warned that “as with all Inter-net stocks, a valuation is clearly more art than science. ” Then, citingonly the possibility of future growth, he jacked up his “price target” on40 Commentary on Chapter 1
6Just 12 months later, Juno’s shares had shriveled to $1.093.
7A ticker symbol is an abbreviation, usually one to four letters long, of a
company’s name used as shorthand to identify a stock for trading purposes.
8This was not an isolated incident; on at least three other occasions in the
late 1990s, day traders sent the wrong stock soaring when they mistook its
ticker symbol for that of a newly minted Internet company.Amazon.com from $150 to $400 in one fell swoop. Amazon.com shot
up 19% that day and—despite Blodget’s protest that his price targetwas a one-year forecast—soared past $400 in just three weeks. A yearlater, PaineWebber analyst Walter Piecyk predicted that Qualcommstock would hit $1,000 a share over the next 12 months. The stock—
already up 1,842% that year—soared another 31% that day, hitting$659 a share.
9
FROM FORMULA TO FIASCO
But trading as if your underpants are on fire is not the only form of
speculation. Throughout the past decade or so, one speculative for-mula after another was promoted, popularized, and then thrown aside.All of them shared a few traits—This is quick! This is easy! And it won’thurt a bit!—and all of them violated at least one of Graham’s distinc-tions between investing and speculating. Here are a few of the trendy
formulas that fell flat:
•Cash in on the calendar. The “January effect”—the tendency of
small stocks to produce big gains around the turn of the year—
was widely promoted in scholarly articles and popular books pub-lished in the 1980s. These studies showed that if you piled into
small stocks in the second half of December and held them into
January, you would beat the market by five to 10 percentagepoints. That amazed many experts. After all, if it were this easy,
surely everyone would hear about it, lots of people would do it,
and the opportunity would wither away.
What caused the January jolt? First of all, many investors sell
their crummiest stocks late in the year to lock in losses that cancut their tax bills. Second, professional money managers growmore cautious as the year draws to a close, seeking to preserve
their outperformance (or minimize their underperformance). That
makes them reluctant to buy (or even hang on to) a falling stock.And if an underperforming stock is also small and obscure, a
money manager will be even less eager to show it in his year-endCommentary on Chapter 1 41
9In 2000 and 2001, Amazon.com and Qualcomm lost a cumulative total of
85.8% and 71.3% of their value, respectively.list of holdings. All these factors turn small stocks into momentary
bargains; when the tax-driven selling ceases in January, they typi-cally bounce back, producing a robust and rapid gain.
The January effect has not withered away, but it has weakened.
According to finance professor William Schwert of the University of
Rochester, if you had bought small stocks in late December andsold them in early January, you would have beaten the market by 8.5
percentage points from 1962 through 1979, by 4.4 points from
1980 through 1989, and by 5.8 points from 1990 through 2001.
10
As more people learned about the January effect, more traders
bought small stocks in December, making them less of a bargainand thus reducing their returns. Also, the January effect is biggestamong the smallest stocks—but according to Plexus Group, theleading authority on brokerage expenses, the total cost of buyingand selling such tiny stocks can run up to 8% of your invest-ment.
11Sadly, by the time you’re done paying your broker, all your
gains on the January effect will melt away.
•Just do “what works. ” In 1996, an obscure money manager
named James O’Shaughnessy published a book called What
Works on Wall Street. In it, he argued that “investors can do
much better than the market. ” O’Shaughnessy made a stunning
claim: From 1954 through 1994, you could have turned $10,000
into $8,074,504, beating the market by more than 10-fold—a tow-
ering 18.2% average annual return. How? By buying a basket of50 stocks with the highest one-year returns, five straight years of
rising earnings, and share prices less than 1.5 times their corpo-
rate revenues.
12As if he were the Edison of Wall Street,
O’Shaughnessy obtained U.S. Patent No. 5,978,778 for his “auto-mated strategies” and launched a group of four mutual fundsbased on his findings. By late 1999 the funds had sucked in more
than $175 million from the public—and, in his annual letter to
shareholders, O’Shaughnessy stated grandly: “As always, I hope42 Commentary on Chapter 1
10Schwert discusses these findings in a brilliant research paper, “Anomalies and
Market Efficiency, ” available at http://schwert.ssb.rochester.edu/papers.htm.
11See Plexus Group Commentary 54, “The Official Icebergs of Transaction
Costs, ” January, 1998, at www.plexusgroup.com/fs_research.html.
12James O’Shaughnessy, What Works on Wall Street (McGraw-Hill, 1996),
pp. xvi, 273–295.Commentary on Chapter 1 43
What Used to Work on Wall Street . . .
$0$50$100$150$200$250
Nov-96 Feb-97May-97 Aug-97Nov-97 Feb-98May-98 Aug-98Nov-98 Feb-99May-99 Aug-99Nov-99 Feb-00May-00 Aug-00Value of $100 invested on November 1, 1996
O’Shaughnessy Cornerstone Growth
O’Shaughnessy Cornerstone Value
O’Shaughnessy Aggressive Growth
O’Shaughnessy Dogs of the Market
Standard & Poor’s 500 stock indexFIGURE 1-2that together, we can reach our long-term goals by staying the
course and sticking with our time-tested investment strategies. ”
But “what works on Wall Street” stopped working right after
O’Shaughnessy publicized it. As Figure 1-2 shows, two of his
funds stank so badly that they shut down in early 2000, and the
Source: Morningstar, Inc.overall stock market (as measured by the S & P 500 index) wal-
loped every O’Shaughnessy fund almost nonstop for nearly fouryears running.
In June 2000, O’Shaughnessy moved closer to his own “long-
term goals” by turning the funds over to a new manager, leaving
his customers to fend for themselves with those “time-testedinvestment strategies. ”
13O’Shaughnessy’s shareholders might
have been less upset if he had given his book a more precisetitle—for instance, What Used to Work on Wall Street . . . Until I
Wrote This Book.
•Follow “The Foolish Four. ” In the mid-1990s, the Motley Fool
website (and several books) hyped the daylights out of a tech-nique called “The Foolish Four. ” According to the Motley Fool, you
would have “trashed the market averages over the last 25 years”
and could “crush your mutual funds” by spending “only 15 min-utes a year” on planning your investments. Best of all, this tech-
nique had “minimal risk. ” All you needed to do was this:
1. Take the five stocks in the Dow Jones Industrial Average with
the lowest stock prices and highest dividend yields.
2. Discard the one with the lowest price.
3. Put 40% of your money in the stock with the second-lowest
price.
4. Put 20% in each of the three remaining stocks.5. One year later, sort the Dow the same way and reset the
portfolio according to steps 1 through 4.
6. Repeat until wealthy.
Over a 25-year period, the Motley Fool claimed, this technique
would have beaten the market by a remarkable 10.1 percentage44 Commentary on Chapter 1
13In a remarkable irony, the surviving two O’Shaughnessy funds (now
known as the Hennessy funds) began performing quite well just as
O’Shaughnessy announced that he was turning over the management to
another company. The funds’ shareholders were furious. In a chat room atwww.morningstar.com, one fumed: “I guess ‘long term’ for O’S is 3 years....I  feel your pain. I, too, had faith in O’S’s method. ...I  had told several
friends and relatives about this fund, and now am glad they didn’t act on myadvice. ”points annually. Over the next two decades, they suggested,
$20,000 invested in The Foolish Four should flower into$1,791,000. (And, they claimed, you could do still better by pick-ing the five Dow stocks with the highest ratio of dividend yield tothe square root of stock price, dropping the one that scored the
highest, and buying the next four.)
Let’s consider whether this “strategy” could meet Graham’s
definitions of an investment:
• What kind of “thorough analysis” could justify discarding the
stock with the single most attractive price and dividend—but
keeping the four that score lower for those desirable qualities?
• How could putting 40% of your money into only one stock be a
“minimal risk”?
• And how could a portfolio of only four stocks be diversified
enough to provide “safety of principal”?
The Foolish Four, in short, was one of the most cockamamie
stock-picking formulas ever concocted. The Fools made the samemistake as O’Shaughnessy: If you look at a large quantity of datalong enough, a huge number of patterns will emerge—if only bychance. By random luck alone, the companies that produceabove-average stock returns will have plenty of things in common.
But unless those factors cause the stocks to outperform, they
can’t be used to predict future returns.
None of the factors that the Motley Fools “discovered” with
such fanfare—dropping the stock with the best score, doubling up
on the one with the second-highest score, dividing the dividendyield by the square root of stock price—could possibly cause or
explain the future performance of a stock. Money Magazine found
that a portfolio made up of stocks whose names contained no
repeating letters would have performed nearly as well as The
Foolish Four—and for the same reason: luck alone.
14As Graham
never stops reminding us, stocks do well or poorly in the future
because the businesses behind them do well or poorly—nothingmore, and nothing less.Commentary on Chapter 1 45
14See Jason Zweig, “False Profits, ” Money, August, 1999, pp. 55–57 . A
thorough discussion of The Foolish Four can also be found at www.investor
home.com/fool.htm.Sure enough, instead of crushing the market, The Foolish Four
crushed the thousands of people who were fooled into believing
that it was a form of investing. In 2000 alone, the four Foolishstocks—Caterpillar, Eastman Kodak, SBC, and General Motors—lost 14% while the Dow dropped by just 4.7%.
As these examples show, there’s only one thing that never suffers a
bear market on Wall Street: dopey ideas. Each of these so-calledinvesting approaches fell prey to Graham’s Law. All mechanical formu-
las for earning higher stock performance are “a kind of self-destructive
process—akin to the law of diminishing returns. ” There are two reasons
the returns fade away. If the formula was just based on random statis-tical flukes (like The Foolish Four), the mere passage of time will
expose that it made no sense in the first place. On the other hand, if
the formula actually did work in the past (like the January effect), thenby publicizing it, market pundits always erode—and usually eliminate—
its ability to do so in the future.
All this reinforces Graham’s warning that you must treat specula-
tion as veteran gamblers treat their trips to the casino:
• You must never delude yourself into thinking that you’re investing
when you’re speculating.
• Speculating becomes mortally dangerous the moment you begin
to take it seriously.
• You must put strict limits on the amount you are willing to wager.
Just as sensible gamblers take, say, $100 down to the casino floor
and leave the rest of their money locked in the safe in their hotel room,
the intelligent investor designates a tiny portion of her total portfolio as
a “mad money” account. For most of us, 10% of our overall wealth isthe maximum permissible amount to put at speculative risk. Never min-
gle the money in your speculative account with what’s in your invest-ment accounts; never allow your speculative thinking to spill over into
your investing activities; and never put more than 10% of your assets
into your mad money account, no matter what happens.
For better or worse, the gambling instinct is part of human nature—
so it’s futile for most people even to try suppressing it. But you mustconfine and restrain it. That’s the single best way to make sure you willnever fool yourself into confusing speculation with investment.46 Commentary on Chapter 1CHAPTER 2
The Investor and Inflation
Inflation, and the fight against it, has been very much in the
public’s mind in recent years. The shrinkage in the purchasing
power of the dollar in the past, and particularly the fear (or hopeby speculators) of a serious further decline in the future, hasgreatly influenced the thinking of Wall Street. It is clear that those
with a fixed dollar income will suffer when the cost of living
advances, and the same applies to a fixed amount of dollar princi-pal. Holders of stocks, on the other hand, have the possibility that a
loss of the dollar’s purchasing power may be offset by advances in
their dividends and the prices of their shares.
On the basis of these undeniable facts many financial authorities
have concluded that (1) bonds are an inherently undesirable formof investment, and (2) consequently, common stocks are by theirvery nature more desirable investments than bonds. We have
heard of charitable institutions being advised that their portfolios
should consist 100% of stocks and zero percent of bonds.* This isquite a reversal from the earlier days when trust investments were
47* By the late 1990s, this advice—which can be appropriate for a foundation
or endowment with an infinitely long investment horizon—had spread to indi-
vidual investors, whose life spans are finite. In the 1994 edition of his influ-
ential book, Stocks for the Long Run, finance professor Jeremy Siegel of the
Wharton School recommended that “risk-taking” investors should buy on
margin, borrowing more than a third of their net worth to sink 135% of their
assets into stocks. Even government officials got in on the act: In February1999, the Honorable Richard Dixon, state treasurer of Maryland, told theaudience at an investment conference: “It doesn’t make any sense for any-one to have any money in a bond fund. ”restricted by law to high-grade bonds (and a few choice preferred
stocks).
Our readers must have enough intelligence to recognize that
even high-quality stocks cannot be a better purchase than bondsunder all conditions —i.e., regardless of how high the stock market
may be and how low the current dividend return compared withthe rates available on bonds. A statement of this kind would be asabsurd as was the contrary one—too often heard years ago—that
any bond is safer than any stock. In this chapter we shall try to
apply various measurements to the inflation factor, in order toreach some conclusions as to the extent to which the investor may
wisely be influenced by expectations regarding future rises in the
price level.
In this matter, as in so many others in finance, we must base our
views of future policy on a knowledge of past experience. Is infla-
tion something new for this country, at least in the serious form it
has taken since 1965? If we have seen comparable (or worse) infla-
tions in living experience, what lessons can be learned from them
in confronting the inflation of today? Let us start with Table 2-1, acondensed historical tabulation that contains much information
about changes in the general price level and concomitant changes
in the earnings and market value of common stocks. Our figureswill begin with 1915, and thus cover 55 years, presented at five-
year intervals. (We use 1946 instead of 1945 to avoid the last year of
wartime price controls.)
The first thing we notice is that we have had inflation in the
past—lots of it. The largest five-year dose was between 1915 and
1920, when the cost of living nearly doubled. This compares with
the advance of 15% between 1965 and 1970. In between, we have
had three periods of declining prices and then six of advances at
varying rates, some rather small. On this showing, the investorshould clearly allow for the probability of continuing or recurrent
inflation to come.
Can we tell what the rate of inflation is likely to be? No clear
answer is suggested by our table; it shows variations of all sorts. It
would seem sensible, however, to take our cue from the rather con-sistent record of the past 20 years. The average annual rise in theconsumer price level for this period has been 2.5%; that for1965–1970 was 4.5%; that for 1970 alone was 5.4%. Official govern-48 The Intelligent InvestorTABLE 2-1 The General Price Level, Stock Earnings, and Stock Prices at Five-Y ear Intervals, 1915–1970
Year
1915
19201925
1930
19351940
1946
c
1950
19551960
1965
1970Wholesale
38.0
84.5
56.6
47.3
43.8
43.066.1
86.8
97.2
100.7
102.5
117.5Consumer
35.469.8
61.1
58.2
47.8
48.8
68.0
83.8
93.3
103.1
109.9
134.0Earnings
1.24
.97
.76
1.05
1.062.84
3.62
3.275.19
5.36Price
8.31
7.98
11.15
21.6315.47
11.02
17.0818.40
40.49
55.85
88.17
92.15Wholesale
Prices
+96.0%
–33.4
–16.5
– 7.4– 0.2
+53.7+31.5+ 6.2
+ 9.2
+ 1.8+14.6Consumer
Prices
+96.8%
–12.4
– 4.7
–18.0
+ 2.1
+40.0
+23.1
+11.4
+10.5+ 6.6
+21.9Stock
Earnings
– 21.9%
– 21.6
+ 33.1
+ 1.0
+168.0
+ 27.4
– 9.7
+ 58.8+ 3.3Stock
Prices
– 4.0%
+ 41.5+ 88.0
– 26.0– 28.8
+ 55.0
+ 21.4
+121.0
+ 38.0
+ 57.0
+ 4.4Price Level
aS & P 500-Stock IndexbPercent Change from Previous Level
aAnnual averages. For price level 1957 = 100 in table; but using new base, 1967 =  100, the average for 1970 is 1 16.3 for consumers’ prices and
110.4 for wholesale prices for the stock index.
b1941–1943 average = 10.
c1946 used, to avoid price controls.ment policy has been strongly against large-scale inflation, and
there are some reasons to believe that Federal policies will be more
effective in the future than in recent years.* We think it would be
reasonable for an investor at this point to base his thinking anddecisions on a probable (far from certain) rate of future inflation of,
say, 3% per annum. (This would compare with an annual rate ofabout 2
1⁄2% for the entire period 1915–1970.)1
What would be the implications of such an advance? It would
eat up, in higher living costs, about one-half the income nowobtainable on good medium-term tax-free bonds (or our assumedafter-tax equivalent from high-grade corporate bonds). This wouldbe a serious shrinkage, but it should not be exaggerated. It wouldnot mean that the true value, or the purchasing power, of theinvestor’s fortune need be reduced over the years. If he spent halfhis interest income after taxes he would maintain this buying
power intact, even against a 3% annual inflation.
But the next question, naturally, is, “Can the investor be reason-
ably sure of doing better by buying and holding other things thanhigh-grade bonds, even at the unprecedented rate of return offered
in 1970–1971?” Would not, for example, an all-stock program bepreferable to a part-bond, part-stock program? Do not commonstocks have a built-in protection against inflation, and are they notalmost certain to give a better return over the years than willbonds? Have not in fact stocks treated the investor far better than
have bonds over the 55-year period of our study?
The answer to these questions is somewhat complicated. Com-
mon stocks have indeed done better than bonds over a long periodof time in the past. The rise of the DJIA from an average of 77 in
1915 to an average of 753 in 1970 works out at an annual com-pounded rate of just about 4%, to which we may add another 4%
for average dividend return. (The corresponding figures for the 
S & P composite are about the same.) These combined figures of 8%50 The Intelligent Investor
* This is one of Graham’s rare misjudgments. In 1973, just two years after
President Richard Nixon imposed wage and price controls, inflation hit8.7%, its highest level since the end of World War II. The decade from 1973through 1982 was the most inflationary in modern American history, as thecost of living more than doubled.per year are of course much better than the return enjoyed from
bonds over the same 55-year period. But they do not exceed that
now offered by high-grade bonds. This brings us to the next logical
question: Is there a persuasive reason to believe that common
stocks are likely to do much better in future years than they have inthe last five and one-half decades?
Our answer to this crucial question must be a flat no.Common
stocks may do better in the future than in the past, but they are far
from certain to do so. We must deal here with two different timeelements in investment results. The first covers what is likely tooccur over the long-term future—say, the next 25 years. The second
applies to what is likely to happen to the investor—both financially
and psychologically—over short or intermediate periods, say fiveyears or less. His frame of mind, his hopes and apprehensions, hissatisfaction or discontent with what he has done, above all his deci-sions what to do next, are all determined not in the retrospect of a lifetime of investment but rather by his experience from year 
to year.
On this point we can be categorical. There is no close time con-
nection between inflationary (or deflationary) conditions and the
movement of common-stock earnings and prices. The obviousexample is the recent period, 1966–1970. The rise in the cost of liv-ing was 22%, the largest in a five-year period since 1946–1950. But
both stock earnings and stock prices as a whole have declined since
1965. There are similar contradictions in both directions in therecord of previous five-year periods.
Inflation and Corporate Earnings
Another and highly important approach to the subject is by a
study of the earnings rate on capital shown by American business.
This has fluctuated, of course, with the general rate of economic
activity, but it has shown no general tendency to advance withwholesale prices or the cost of living. Actually this rate has fallen
rather markedly in the past twenty years in spite of the inflation of
the period. (To some degree the decline was due to the charging ofmore liberal depreciation rates. See Table 2-2.) Our extended stud-ies have led to the conclusion that the investor cannot count onmuch above the recent five-year rate earned on the DJIA group—The Investor and Inflation 51about 10% on net tangible assets (book value) behind the shares.2
Since the market value of these issues is well above their book
value—say, 900 market vs. 560 book in mid-1971—the earnings oncurrent market price work out only at some 6
1⁄4%. (This relation-
ship is generally expressed in the reverse, or “times earnings,”manner—e.g., that the DJIA price of 900 equals 18 times the actualearnings for the 12 months ended June 1971.)
Our figures gear in directly with the suggestion in the previous
chapter* that the investor may assume an average dividend return
of about 3.5% on the market value of his stocks, plus an apprecia-
tion of, say, 4% annually resulting from reinvested profits. (Note
that each dollar added to book value is here assumed to increase
the market price by about $1.60.)
The reader will object that in the end our calculations make no
allowance for an increase in common-stock earnings and values toresult from our projected 3% annual inflation. Our justification isthe absence of any sign that the inflation of a comparable amount
in the past has had any direct effect on reported per-share earnings.
The cold figures demonstrate that allthe large gain in the earnings
of the DJIA unit in the past 20 years was due to a proportionatelylarge growth of invested capital coming from reinvested profits. If
inflation had operated as a separate favorable factor, its effectwould have been to increase the “value” of previously existing
capital; this in turn should increase the rate of earnings on such old
capital and therefore on the old and new capital combined. Butnothing of the kind actually happened in the past 20 years, during
which the wholesale price level has advanced nearly 40%. (Busi-
ness earnings should be influenced more by wholesale prices thanby “consumer prices.”) The only way that inflation can add to 
common stock values is by raising the rate of earnings on cap-
ital investment. On the basis of the past record this has not been the case.
In the economic cycles of the past, good business was accompa-
nied by a rising price level and poor business by falling prices. Itwas generally felt that “a little inflation” was helpful to businessprofits. This view is not contradicted by the history of 1950–1970,52 The Intelligent Investor
* See p. 25.which reveals a combination of generally continued prosperity and
generally rising prices. But the figures indicate that the effect of all
this on the earning power of common-stock capital (“equity capital”)
has been quite limited; in fact it has not even served to maintain the
rate of earnings on the investment. Clearly there have been impor-tant offsetting influences which have prevented any increase in thereal profitability of American corporations as a whole. Perhaps themost important of these have been (1) a rise in wage rates exceed-
ing the gains in productivity, and (2) the need for huge amounts 
of new capital, thus holding down the ratio of sales to capitalemployed.
Our figures in Table 2-2 indicate that so far from inflation having
benefited our corporations and their shareholders, its effect hasbeen quite the opposite. The most striking figures in our table arethose for the growth of corporate debt between 1950 and 1969. It issurprising how little attention has been paid by economists and byWall Street to this development. The debt of corporations has
expanded nearly fivefold while their profits before taxes a little
more than doubled. With the great rise in interest rates during thisperiod, it is evident that the aggregate corporate debt is now anThe Investor and Inflation 53
TABLE 2-2 Corporate Debt, Profits, and Earnings on Capital,
1950–1969
1950
1955
196019651969$140.2
212.1
302.8
453.3692.9$42.6
48.6
49.7
77.891.2$17 8
27.0
26.7
46.548.518.3%18.3%
10.4%
10.8%
11.8%15.0%12.9%
9.1%
11.8%
11.3%Corporate Profits
Percent Earned on Capital Net Corporate
Debt
(billions)S & P
Data
aBefore
Income Tax
(millions)After
Tax
(millions)Other
DatabYear
aEarnings of Standard & Poor’s industrial index divided by average book value for
year.
bFigures for 1950 and 1955 from Cottle and Whitman; those for 1960–1969 from
Fortune.adverse economic factor of some magnitude and a real problem for
many individual enterprises. (Note that in 1950 net earnings after
interest but before income tax were about 30% of corporate debt,
while in 1969 they were only 13.2% of debt. The 1970 ratio musthave been even less satisfactory.) In sum it appears that a signifi-cant part of the 11% being earned on corporate equities as a wholeis accomplished by the use of a large amount of new debt costing4% or less after tax credit. If our corporations had maintained the
debt ratio of 1950, their earnings rate on stock capital would have
fallen still lower, in spite of the inflation.
The stock market has considered that the public-utility enter-
prises have been a chief victim of inflation, being caught between agreat advance in the cost of borrowed money and the difficulty ofraising the rates charged under the regulatory process. But thismay be the place to remark that the very fact that the unit costs ofelectricity, gas, and telephone services have advanced so much lessthan the general price index puts these companies in a strong
strategic position for the future.
3They are entitled by law to charge
rates sufficient for an adequate return on their invested capital, andthis will probably protect their shareholders in the future as it has
in the inflations of the past.
All of the above brings us back to our conclusion that the
investor has no sound basis for expecting more than an averageoverall return of, say, 8% on a portfolio of DJIA-type commonstocks purchased at the late 1971 price level. But even if these
expectations should prove to be understated by a substantial
amount, the case would not be made for an all-stock investmentprogram. If there is one thing guaranteed for the future, it is thatthe earnings and average annual market value of a stock portfoliowill notgrow at the uniform rate of 4%, or any other figure. In the
memorable words of the elder J. P . Morgan, “ They will fluctuate. ”*
This means, first, that the common-stock buyer at today’s prices—54 The Intelligent Investor
* John Pierpont Morgan was the most powerful financier of the late nine-
teenth and early twentieth centuries. Because of his vast influence, he wasconstantly asked what the stock market would do next. Morgan developed amercifully short and unfailingly accurate answer: “It will fluctuate. ” See JeanStrouse, Morgan: American Financier (Random House, 1999), p. 11.or tomorrow’s—will be running a real risk of having unsatisfactory
results therefrom over a period of years. It took 25 years for Gen-
eral Electric (and the DJIA itself) to recover the ground lost in the
1929–1932 debacle. Besides that, if the investor concentrates hisportfolio on common stocks he is very likely to be led astray eitherby exhilarating advances or by distressing declines. This is particu-larly true if his reasoning is geared closely to expectations of fur-ther inflation. For then, if another bull market comes along, he will
take the big rise not as a danger signal of an inevitable fall, not as a
chance to cash in on his handsome profits, but rather as a vindica-tion of the inflation hypothesis and as a reason to keep on buying
common stocks no matter how high the market level nor how low
the dividend return. That way lies sorrow.
Alternatives to Common Stocks as Inflation Hedges
The standard policy of people all over the world who mistrust
their currency has been to buy and hold gold. This has been against
the law for American citizens since 1935—luckily for them. In the
past 35 years the price of gold in the open market has advancedfrom $35 per ounce to $48 in early 1972—a rise of only 35%. Butduring all this time the holder of gold has received no incomereturn on his capital, and instead has incurred some annualexpense for storage. Obviously, he would have done much better
with his money at interest in a savings bank, in spite of the rise in
the general price level.
The near-complete failure of gold to protect against a loss in the
purchasing power of the dollar must cast grave doubt on the abil-ity of the ordinary investor to protect himself against inflation byputting his money in “things.”* Quite a few categories of valuableThe Investor and Inflation 55
* The investment philosopher Peter L. Bernstein feels that Graham was
“dead wrong” about precious metals, particularly gold, which (at least in the
years after Graham wrote this chapter) has shown a robust ability to out-
pace inflation. Financial adviser William Bernstein agrees, pointing out that atiny allocation to a precious-metals fund (say, 2% of your total assets) is toosmall to hurt your overall returns when gold does poorly. But, when golddoes well, its returns are often so spectacular—sometimes exceeding 100%objects have had striking advances in market value over the
years—such as diamonds, paintings by masters, first editions of
books, rare stamps and coins, etc. But in many, perhaps most, of
these cases there seems to be an element of the artificial or the pre-carious or even the unreal about the quoted prices. Somehow it ishard to think of paying $67,500 for a U.S. silver dollar dated 1804(but not even minted that year) as an “investment operation.”
4We
acknowledge we are out of our depth in this area. Very few of our
readers will find the swimming safe and easy there.
The outright ownership of real estate has long been considered
as a sound long-term investment, carrying with it a goodly amount
of protection against inflation. Unfortunately, real-estate values arealso subject to wide fluctuations; serious errors can be made inlocation, price paid, etc.; there are pitfalls in salesmen’s wiles.Finally, diversification is not practical for the investor of moderatemeans, except by various types of participations with others andwith the special hazards that attach to new flotations—not too dif-
ferent from common-stock ownership. This too is not our field. All
we should say to the investor is, “Be sure it’s yours before you gointo it.”
Conclusion
Naturally, we return to the policy recommended in our previous
chapter. Just because of the uncertainties of the future the investorcannot afford to put all his funds into one basket—neither in thebond basket, despite the unprecedentedly high returns that bondshave recently offered; nor in the stock basket, despite the prospect
of continuing inflation.
The more the investor depends on his portfolio and the income
therefrom, the more necessary it is for him to guard against the56 The Intelligent Investor
in a year—that it can, all by itself, set an otherwise lackluster portfolio glitter-
ing. However, the intelligent investor avoids investing in gold directly, with its
high storage and insurance costs; instead, seek out a well-diversified mutualfund specializing in the stocks of precious-metal companies and chargingbelow 1% in annual expenses. Limit your stake to 2% of your total financialassets (or perhaps 5% if you are over the age of 65).unexpected and the disconcerting in this part of his life. It is
axiomatic that the conservative investor should seek to minimize
his risks. We think strongly that the risks involved in buying, say, a
telephone-company bond at yields of nearly 71⁄2% are much less
than those involved in buying the DJIA at 900 (or any stock listequivalent thereto). But the possibility of large-scale inflation
remains, and the investor must carry some insurance against it.There is no certainty that a stock component will insure adequatelyagainst such inflation, but it should carry more protection than thebond component.
This is what we said on the subject in our 1965 edition (p. 97),
and we would write the same today:
It must be evident to the reader that we have no enthusiasm for
common stocks at these levels (892 for the DJIA). For reasons
already given we feel that the defensive investor cannot afford to
be without an appreciable proportion of common stocks in hisportfolio, even if we regard them as the lesser of two evils—the
greater being the risks in an all-bond holding.The Investor and Inflation 57COMMENTARY ON C HAPTER 2
Americans are getting stronger. Twenty years ago, it took two
people to carry ten dollars’ worth of groceries. Today, a five-
year-old can do it.
—Henny Youngman
Inflation? Who cares about that?
After all, the annual rise in the cost of goods and services averaged
less than 2.2% between 1997 and 2002—and economists believethat even that rock-bottom rate may be overstated.
1(Think, for
instance, of how the prices of computers and home electronics haveplummeted—and how the quality of many goods has risen, meaningthat consumers are getting better value for their money.) In recent
years, the true rate of inflation in the United States has probably run
around 1% annually—an increase so infinitesimal that many punditshave proclaimed that “inflation is dead. ”
2
581The U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics, which calculates the Consumer Price
Index that measures inflation, maintains a comprehensive and helpful web-
site at www.bls.gov/cpi/home.htm.
2For a lively discussion of the “inflation is dead” scenario, see www.pbs.
org/newshour/bb/economy/july-dec97/inflation_12-16.html. In 1996, theBoskin Commission, a group of economists asked by the government to
investigate whether the official rate of inflation is accurate, estimated that ithas been overstated, often by nearly two percentage points per year. For the
commission’s report, see www.ssa.gov/history/reports/boskinrpt.html. Many
investment experts now feel that deflation, or falling prices, is an evengreater threat than inflation; the best way to hedge against that risk is byincluding bonds as a permanent component of your portfolio. (See the com-mentary on Chapter 4.)THE MONEY ILLUSION
There’s another reason investors overlook the importance of inflation:
what psychologists call the “money illusion. ” If you receive a 2% raisein a year when inflation runs at 4%, you will almost certainly feel betterthan you will if you take a 2% pay cut during a year when inflation iszero. Yet both changes in your salary leave you in a virtually identical
position—2% worse off after inflation. So long as the nominal (or
absolute) change is positive, we view it as a good thing—even if the
real(or after-inflation) result is negative. And any change in your own
salary is more vivid and specific than the generalized change of prices
in the economy as a whole.
3Likewise, investors were delighted to earn
11% on bank certificates of deposit (CDs) in 1980 and are bitterly
disappointed to be earning only around 2% in 2003—even though
they were losing money after inflation back then but are keeping upwith inflation now. The nominal rate we earn is printed in the bank’sads and posted in its window, where a high number makes us feelgood. But inflation eats away at that high number in secret. Instead oftaking out ads, inflation just takes away our wealth. That’s why inflation
is so easy to overlook—and why it’s so important to measure your
investing success not just by what you make, but by how much youkeep after inflation.
More basically still, the intelligent investor must always be on guard
against whatever is unexpected and underestimated. There are three
good reasons to believe that inflation is not dead:
• As recently as 1973–1982, the United States went through one
of the most painful bursts of inflation in our history. As measured
by the Consumer Price Index, prices more than doubled over 
that period, rising at an annualized rate of nearly 9%. In 1979alone, inflation raged at 13.3%, paralyzing the economy in what
became known as “stagflation”—and leading many commentators
to question whether America could compete in the global market-Commentary on Chapter 2 59
3For more insights into this behavioral pitfall, see Eldar Shafir, Peter Dia-
mond, and Amos Tversky, “Money Illusion, ” in Daniel Kahneman and Amos
Tversky, eds., Choices, Values, and Frames (Cambridge University Press,
2000), pp. 335–355.place.4Goods and services priced at $100 in the beginning of
1973 cost $230 by the end of 1982, shriveling the value of a dol-
lar to less than 45 cents. No one who lived through it would scoffat such destruction of wealth; no one who is prudent can fail toprotect against the risk that it might recur.
• Since 1960, 69% of the world’s market-oriented countries have
suffered at least one year in which inflation ran at an annualizedrate of 25% or more. On average, those inflationary periods
destroyed 53% of an investor’s purchasing power.
5We would be
crazy not to hope that America is somehow exempt from such adisaster. But we would be even crazier to conclude that it cannever happen here.
6
• Rising prices allow Uncle Sam to pay off his debts with dollars
that have been cheapened by inflation. Completely eradicatinginflation runs against the economic self-interest of any govern-ment that regularly borrows money.
760 Commentary on Chapter 2
4That year, President Jimmy Carter gave his famous “malaise” speech, in
which he warned of “a crisis in confidence” that “strikes at the very heart
and soul and spirit of our national will” and “threatens to destroy the social
and the political fabric of America. ”
5See Stanley Fischer, Ratna Sahay, and Carlos A. Vegh, “Modern Hyper-
and High Inflations, ” National Bureau of Economic Research, Working Paper
8930, at www.nber.org/papers/w8930.
6In fact, the United States has had two periods of hyperinflation. During the
American Revolution, prices roughly tripled every year from 1777 through1779, with a pound of butter costing $12 and a barrel of flour fetching
nearly $1,600 in Revolutionary Massachusetts. During the Civil War, infla-tion raged at annual rates of 29% (in the North) and nearly 200% (in the
Confederacy). As recently as 1946, inflation hit 18.1% in the United States.
7I am indebted to Laurence Siegel of the Ford Foundation for this cynical,
but accurate, insight. Conversely, in a time of deflation (or steadily falling
prices) it’s more advantageous to be a lender than a borrower—which is whymost investors should keep at least a small portion of their assets in bonds,as a form of insurance against deflating prices.HALF A HEDGE
What, then, can the intelligent investor do to guard against inflation?
The standard answer is “buy stocks”—but, as common answers sooften are, it is not entirely true.
Figure 2-1 shows, for each year from 1926 through 2002, the rela-
tionship between inflation and stock prices.
As you can see, in years when the prices of consumer goods and
services fell, as on the left side of the graph, stock returns were terri-ble—with the market losing up to 43% of its value.
8When inflation shot
above 6%, as in the years on the right end of the graph, stocks alsostank. The stock market lost money in eight of the 14 years in whichinflation exceeded 6%; the average return for those 14 years was ameasly 2.6%.
While mild inflation allows companies to pass the increased costs
of their own raw materials on to customers, high inflation wreakshavoc—forcing customers to slash their purchases and depressingactivity throughout the economy.
The historical evidence is clear: Since the advent of accurate 
stock-market data in 1926, there have been 64 five-year periods (i.e., 1926–1930, 1927–1931, 1928–1932, and so on through1998–2002). In 50 of those 64 five-year periods (or 78% of the time),stocks outpaced inflation.
9That’s impressive, but imperfect; it means
that stocks failed to keep up with inflation about one-fifth of the time.Commentary on Chapter 2 61
8When inflation is negative, it is technically termed “deflation. ” Regularly
falling prices may at first sound appealing, until you think of the Japanese
example. Prices have been deflating in Japan since 1989, with real estate
and the stock market dropping in value year after year—a relentless watertorture for the world’s second-largest economy.
9Ibbotson Associates, Stocks, Bonds, Bills, and Inflation, 2003 Handbook
(Ibbotson Associates, Chicago, 2003), Table 2-8. The same pattern is evi-
dent outside the United States: In Belgium, Italy, and Germany, where infla-
tion was especially high in the twentieth century, “inflation appears to havehad a negative impact on both stock and bond markets, ” note Elroy Dimson,Paul Marsh, and Mike Staunton in Triumph of the Optimists: 101 Years of
Global Investment Returns (Princeton University Press, 2002), p. 53.How Well Do Stocks Hedge Against Inflation?
-50-40-30-20-100102030405060Total return on stocks and rate of inflation (%)Inflation
Return on stocksFIGURE 2-1
This graph shows inflation and stock returns for each year between 1 926 and 2002—arrayed not in chronological order but from
the lowest annual inflation rates to the highest. When inflation is highly negative (see far left), stoc ks do very poorly. When infla-
tion is moderate, as it was in most years during this period, stocks generally do well. B ut when inflation heats up to very high lev-
els (see far right), stocks perform erratically, often losing at least 1 0%.
Source: Ibbotson AssociatesTWO ACRONYMS TO THE RESCUE
Fortunately, you can bolster your defenses against inflation by branch-
ing out beyond stocks. Since Graham last wrote, two inflation-fightershave become widely available to investors:
REITs. Real Estate Investment Trusts, or REITs (pronounced
“reets”), are companies that own and collect rent from commercial
and residential properties.
10Bundled into real-estate mutual funds,
REITs do a decent job of combating inflation. The best choice is Van-
guard REIT Index Fund; other relatively low-cost choices include
Cohen & Steers Realty Shares, Columbia Real Estate Equity Fund,
and Fidelity Real Estate Investment Fund.11While a REIT fund is
unlikely to be a foolproof inflation-fighter, in the long run it should giveyou some defense against the erosion of purchasing power without
hampering your overall returns.
TIPS. Treasury Inflation-Protected Securities, or TIPS, are U.S.
government bonds, first issued in 1997 , that automatically go up invalue when inflation rises. Because the full faith and credit of the
United States stands behind them, all Treasury bonds are safe fromthe risk of default (or nonpayment of interest). But TIPS also guaran-tee that the value of your investment won’t be eroded by inflation. Inone easy package, you insure yourself against financial loss and theloss of purchasing power.
12
There is one catch, however. When the value of your TIPS bond
rises as inflation heats up, the Internal Revenue Service regards thatincrease in value as taxable income—even though it is purely a paperCommentary on Chapter 2 63
10Thorough, if sometimes outdated, information on REITs can be found at
www.nareit.com.
11For further information, see www.vanguard.com, www.cohenandsteers.
com, www.columbiafunds.com, and www.fidelity.com. The case for investing
in a REIT fund is weaker if you own a home, since that gives you an inherent
stake in real-estate ownership.
12A good introduction to TIPS can be found at www.publicdebt.treas.gov/
of/ofinflin.htm. For more advanced discussions, see www.federalreserve.gov/Pubs/feds/2002/200232/200232pap.pdf, www. tiaa-crefinstitute.org/
Publications/resdiags/73_09-2002.htm, and www. bwater.com/research_
ibonds.htm.gain (unless you sold the bond at its newly higher price). Why does
this make sense to the IRS? The intelligent investor will remember thewise words of financial analyst Mark Schweber: “The one questionnever to ask a bureaucrat is ‘Why?’ ” Because of this exasperating taxcomplication, TIPS are best suited for a tax-deferred retirement
account like an IRA, Keogh, or 401(k), where they will not jack up yourtaxable income.
You can buy TIPS directly from the U.S. government at www.
publicdebt.treas.gov/of/ofinflin.htm, or in a low-cost mutual fund likeVanguard Inflation-Protected Securities or Fidelity Inflation-Protected
Bond Fund.
13Either directly or through a fund, TIPS are the ideal sub-
stitute for the proportion of your retirement funds you would otherwise
keep in cash. Do not trade them: TIPS can be volatile in the short run,so they work best as a permanent, lifelong holding. For most investors,
allocating at least 10% of your retirement assets to TIPS is an intelli-gent way to keep a portion of your money absolutely safe—and entirelybeyond the reach of the long, invisible claws of inflation.64 Commentary on Chapter 2
13For details on these funds, see www.vanguard.com or www.fidelity.com.CHAPTER 3
A Century of Stock-Market History: 
The Level of Stock Prices in Early 1972
The investor’s portfolio of common stocks will represent a small
cross-section of that immense and formidable institution known as
the stock market. Prudence suggests that he have an adequate ideaof stock-market history, in terms particularly of the major fluctua-tions in its price level and of the varying relationships between
stock prices as a whole and their earnings and dividends. With this
background he may be in a position to form some worthwhilejudgment of the attractiveness or dangers of the level of the market
as it presents itself at different times. By a coincidence, useful sta-
tistical data on prices, earnings, and dividends go back just 100years, to 1871. (The material is not nearly as full or dependable in
the first half-period as in the second, but it will serve.) In this chap-
ter we shall present the figures, in highly condensed form, withtwo objects in view. The first is to show the general manner in
which stocks have made their underlying advance through the
many cycles of the past century. The second is to view the picturein terms of successive ten-year averages, not only of stock prices
but of earnings and dividends as well, to bring out the varyingrelationship between the three important factors. With this wealth
of material as a background we shall pass to a consideration of the
level of stock prices at the beginning of 1972.
The long-term history of the stock market is summarized in two
tables and a chart. Table 3-1 sets forth the low and high points of
nineteen bear- and bull-market cycles in the past 100 years. Wehave used two indexes here. The first represents a combination ofan early study by the Cowles Commission going back to 1870,which has been spliced on to and continued to date in the well-
65TABLE 3-1 Major Stock-Market Swings Between 
1871 and 1971
Cowles-Standard 500 Composite Dow-Jones Industrial Average
Year High Low Decline High Low Decline
1871 4.64
1881 6.581885 4.24 28%1887 5.901893 4.08 31
1897 38.85
1899 77.61900 53.5 31%
1901 8.50 78.3
1903 6.26 26 43.2 45
1906 10.03 103
1907 6.25 38 53 48
1909 10.30 100.5
1914 7.35 29 53.2 471916–18 10.21 110.2
1917 6.80 33 73.4 33
1919 9.51 119.6
1921 6.45 32 63.9 471929 31.92 3811932 4.40 86 41.2 89
1937 18.68 197.4
1938 8.50 55 99 501939 13.23 1581942 7.47 44 92.9 41
1946 19.25 212.5
1949 13.55 30 161.2 24
1952 26.6 2921952–53 22.7 15 256 13
1956 49.7 521
1957 39.0 24 420 20
1961 76.7 735
1962 54.8 29 536 271966–68 108.4 9951970 69.3 36 631 37
early 1972 100 — 900 —known Standard & Poor’s composite index of 500 stocks. The sec-
ond is the even more celebrated Dow Jones Industrial Average (the
DJIA, or “the Dow”), which dates back to 1897; it contains 30 com-
panies, of which one is American Telephone & Telegraph and theother 29 are large industrial enterprises.
1
Chart I, presented by courtesy of Standard & Poor’s, depicts the
market fluctuations of its 425-industrial-stock index from 1900
through 1970. (A corresponding chart available for the DJIA will
look very much the same.) The reader will note three quite distinctpatterns, each covering about a third of the 70 years. The first runsfrom 1900 to 1924, and shows for the most part a series of rathersimilar market cycles lasting from three to five years. The annualadvance in this period averaged just about 3%. We move on to the
“New Era” bull market, culminating in 1929, with its terrible after-
math of collapse, followed by quite irregular fluctuations until1949. Comparing the average level of 1949 with that of 1924, we
find the annual rate of advance to be a mere 1
1⁄2%; hence the close of
our second period found the public with no enthusiasm at all forcommon stocks. By the rule of opposites the time was ripe for the
beginning of the greatest bull market in our history, presented inthe last third of our chart. This phenomenon may have reached itsculmination in December 1968 at 118 for Standard & Poor’s 425industrials (and 108 for its 500-stock composite). As Table 3-1shows, there were fairly important setbacks between 1949 and 1968
(especially in 1956–57 and 1961–62), but the recoveries therefrom
were so rapid that they had to be denominated (in the long-accepted semantics) as recessions in a single bull market, rather
than as separate market cycles. Between the low level of 162 for
“the Dow” in mid-1949 and the high of 995 in early 1966, theadvance had been more than sixfold in 17 years—which is at the
average compounded rate of 11% per year, not counting dividends
of, say, 3
1⁄2% per annum. (The advance for the Standard & Poor’s
composite index was somewhat greater than that of the DJIA—
actually from 14 to 96.)
These 14% and better returns were documented in 1963, and
later, in a much publicized study.*2It created a natural satisfactionA Century of Stock-Market History 67
* The study, in its final form, was Lawrence Fisher and James H. Lorie,
“Rates of Return on Investments in Common Stock: the Year-by-YearCHART 1
125
100
90
80
70
60
50
40
30
20
18
16
14
12
10
8
6
5
4
2125
100
90
80
70
60
50
40
30
20
18
16
14
12
10
8
6
5
4
2STANDARD & POOR’S STOCK PRICE INDEXES
1941–1943 = 10
MONTHLY AVERAGE OF 425 STOCKSsP&
RATIO SCALE
1900 — 04 05 — 09 10 — 14 15 — 19 20 — 24 25 — 29 30 — 34 35 — 39 40 — 44 45 — 49 50 — 54 55 — 59 60 — 64 65 — 69 70 — 74on Wall Street with such fine achievements, and a quite illogical and
dangerous conviction that equally marvelous results could be
expected for common stocks in the future. Few people seem to have
been bothered by the thought that the very extent of the rise mightindicate that it had been overdone. The subsequent decline from the1968 high to the 1970 low was 36% for the Standard & Poor’s com-posite (and 37% for the DJIA), the largest since the 44% suffered in1939–1942, which had reflected the perils and uncertainties after
Pearl Harbor. In the dramatic manner so characteristic of Wall
Street, the low level of May 1970 was followed by a massive andspeedy recovery of both averages, and the establishment of a new
all-time high for the Standard & Poor’s industrials in early 1972.
The annual rate of price advance between 1949 and 1970 works outat about 9% for the S & P composite (or the industrial index), usingthe average figures for both years. That rate of climb was, of course,much greater than for any similar period before 1950. (But in the lastdecade the rate of advance was much lower—5
1⁄4% for the S & P
composite index and only the once familiar 3% for the DJIA.)
The record of price movements should be supplemented by cor-
responding figures for earnings and dividends, in order to providean overall view of what has happened to our share economy overthe ten decades. We present a conspectus of this kind in our Table3-2 (p. 71). It is a good deal to expect from the reader that he studyall these figures with care, but for some we hope they will be inter-
esting and instructive.
Let us comment on them as follows: The full decade figures
smooth out the year-to-year fluctuations and leave a general pic-
ture of persistent growth. Only two of the nine decades after thefirst show a decrease in earnings and average prices (in 1891–1900and 1931–1940), and no decade after 1900 shows a decrease in aver-
age dividends. But the rates of growth in all three categories are
quite variable. In general the performance since World War II hasbeen superior to that of earlier decades, but the advance in the
1960s was less pronounced than that of the 1950s. Today’s investorA Century of Stock-Market History 69
Record, 1926–65, ” The Journal of Business, vol. XLI, no. 3 (July, 1968), 
pp. 291–316. For a summary of the study’s wide influence, see http://
library.dfaus.com/reprints/work_of_art/.cannot tell from this record what percentage gain in earnings divi-
dends and prices he may expect in the next ten years, but it does
supply all the encouragement he needs for a consistent policy of
common-stock investment.
However, a point should be made here that is not disclosed in
our table. The year 1970 was marked by a definite deterioration inthe overall earnings posture of our corporations. The rate of profiton invested capital fell to the lowest percentage since the World
War years. Equally striking is the fact that a considerable number
of companies reported net losses for the year; many became “finan-cially troubled,” and for the first time in three decades there were
quite a few important bankruptcy proceedings. These facts as
much as any others have prompted the statement made above*that the great boom era may have come to an end in 1969–1970.
A striking feature of Table 3-2 is the change in the price/earn-
ings ratios since World War II.† In June 1949 the S & P compositeindex sold at only 6.3 times the applicable earnings of the past 12
months; in March 1961 the ratio was 22.9 times. Similarly, the divi-
dend yield on the S & P index had fallen from over 7% in 1949 toonly 3.0% in 1961, a contrast heightened by the fact that interest
rates on high-grade bonds had meanwhile risen from 2.60% to
4.50%. This is certainly the most remarkable turnabout in thepublic’s attitude in all stock-market history.
To people of long experience and innate caution the passage
from one extreme to another carried a strong warning of trou-ble ahead. They could not help thinking apprehensively of the
1926–1929 bull market and its tragic aftermath. But these fears havenot been confirmed by the event. True, the closing price of the DJIA70 The Intelligent Investor
* See pp. 50–52.
† The “price/earnings ratio” of a stock, or of a market average like the S & P
500-stock index, is a simple tool for taking the market’s temperature. If, for
instance, a company earned $1 per share of net income over the past year,and its stock is selling at $8.93 per share, its price/earnings ratio would be8.93; if, however, the stock is selling at $69.70, then the price/earnings ratiowould be 69.7 . In general, a price/earnings ratio (or “P/E” ratio) below 10 isconsidered low, between 10 and 20 is considered moderate, and greaterthan 20 is considered expensive. (For more on P/E ratios, see p. 168.)Period
1871–1880
1881–1890
1891–1900
1901–1910
1911–1920
1921–19301931–19401941–1950
1951–1960
1961–1970
1954–1956
1961–1963
1968–1970Average
Price
3.585.00
4.65
8.32
8.62
13.89
11.55
13.90
39.20
82.5038.19
66.10
93.25Average
Earnings
0.32
0.32
0.30
0.63
0.861.05
0.68
1.463.00
4.83
2.563.66
5.60Average
P/E Ratio
11.3
15.6
15.5
13.1
10.0
13.3
17.0
9.5
13.117.1
15.118.1
16.7Dividend
Average
0.21
0.24
0.190.35
0.50
0.710.78
0.87
1.632.68
1.64
2.143.13Average
Yield
6.0%
4.7
4.0
4.2
5.8
5.1
5.1
6.3
4.2
3.2
4.3
3.23.3Average
Payout
67%
75
645858
68
8560
54
5565
58
56Earnings
—
– 0.64%
– 1.04
+ 6.91
+ 3.85
+ 2.84
– 2.15
+10.60+ 6.74
+ 5.80
c
+ 2.40d
+ 5.15d
+ 6.30dDividends
—
–0.66%
–2.23
+5.33
+3.94+2.29
–0.23
+3.25+5.90
+5.40
c
+7.80d
+4.42d
+5.60dTABLE 3-2 A Picture of Stock-Market Performance, 1871–1970a
Annual Growth Rateb
aThe following data based largely on figures appearing in N. Molodovsky’s article, “Stock V alues and Stock Prices,” Financial Analysts Journal,
May 1960. These, in turn, are taken from the Cowles Commission book Common Stock Indexes for years before 1926 and from the spliced-on
Standard & Poor’s 500-stock composite index for 1926 to date.
bThe annual growth-rate figures are Molodovsky compilations covering successive 21-year periods ending in 1890, 1900, etc.
cGrowth rate for 1968–1970 vs. 1958–1960.
dThese growth-rate figures are for 1954–1956 vs. 1947–1949, 1961–1963 vs. 1954–1956, and for 1968–1970 vs. 1958–1960.in 1970 was the same as it was 61⁄2years earlier, and the much her-
alded “Soaring Sixties” proved to be mainly a march up a series of
high hills and then down again. But nothing has happened either
to business or to stock prices that can compare with the bear mar-ket and depression of 1929–1932.
The Stock-Market Level in Early 1972
With a century-long conspectus of stock, prices, earnings, and
dividends before our eyes, let us try to draw some conclusions
about the level of 900 for the DJIA and 100 for the S & P composite
index in January 1972.
In each of our former editions we have discussed the level of the
stock market at the time of writing, and endeavored to answer thequestion whether it was too high for conservative purchase. Thereader may find it informing to review the conclusions we reached
on these earlier occasions. This is not entirely an exercise in self-punishment. It will supply a sort of connecting tissue that links the
various stages of the stock market in the past twenty years and also
a taken-from-life picture of the difficulties facing anyone who tries
to reach an informed and critical judgment of current market lev-els. Let us, first, reproduce the summary of the 1948, 1953, and 1959
analyses that we gave in the 1965 edition:
In 1948 we applied conservative standards to the Dow Jones
level of 180, and found no difficulty in reaching the conclusion that
“it was not too high in relation to underlying values.” When we
approached this problem in 1953 the average market level for thatyear had reached 275, a gain of over 50% in five years. We asked
ourselves the same question—namely, “whether in our opinion the
level of 275 for the Dow Jones Industrials was or was not too highfor sound investment.” In the light of the subsequent spectacular
advance, it may seem strange to have to report that it was by no
means easy for us to reach a definitive conclusion as to the attrac-tiveness of the 1953 level. We did say, positively enough, that“from the standpoint of value indications—our chief investmentguide—the conclusion about 1953 stock prices must be favorable.”But we were concerned about the fact that in 1953, the averageshad advanced for a longer period than in most bull markets of the72 The Intelligent Investorpast, and that its absolute level was historically high. Setting these
factors against our favorable value judgment, we advised a cau-tious or compromise policy. As it turned out, this was not a partic-
ularly brilliant counsel. A good prophet would have foreseen that
the market level was due to advance an additional 100% in thenext five years. Perhaps we should add in self-defense that few if
any of those whose business was stock-market forecasting—as
ours was not—had any better inkling than we did of what layahead.
At the beginning of 1959 we found the DJIA at an all-time high
of 584. Our lengthy analysis made from all points of view may besummarized in the following (from page 59 of the 1959 edition):“In sum, we feel compelled to express the conclusion that the pres-
ent level of stock prices is a dangerous one. It may well be perilous
because prices are already far too high. But even if this is not thecase the market’s momentum is such as inevitably to carry it to
unjustifiable heights. Frankly, we cannot imagine a market of the
future in which there will never be any serious losses, and inwhich, every tyro will be guaranteed a large profit on his stock
purchases.”
The caution we expressed in 1959 was somewhat better justi-
fied by the sequel than was our corresponding attitude in 1954. Yetit was far from fully vindicated. The DJIA advanced to 685 in 1961;
then fell a little below our 584 level (to 566) later in the year;advanced again to 735 in late 1961; and then declined in near panicto 536 in May 1962, showing a loss of 27% within the brief period
of six months. At the same time there was a far more serious
shrinkage in the most popular “growth stocks”—as evidenced bythe striking fall of the indisputable leader, International Business
Machines, from a high of 607 in December 1961 to a low of 300 in
June 1962.
This period saw a complete debacle in a host of newly launched
common stocks of small enterprises—the so-called hot issues—which had been offered to the public at ridiculously high pricesand then had been further pushed up by needless speculation tolevels little short of insane. Many of these lost 90% and more of thequotations in just a few months.
The collapse in the first half of 1962 was disconcerting, if not
disastrous, to many self-acknowledged speculators and perhaps A Century of Stock-Market History 73to many more imprudent people who called themselves “in-
vestors.” But the turnabout that came later that year was equallyunsuspected by the financial community. The stock-market aver-
ages resumed their upward course, producing the following
sequence:
Standard & Poor’s 
DJIA 500-Stock Composite
December 1961 735 72.64
June 1962 536 52.32
November 1964 892 86.28
The recovery and new ascent of common-stock prices was
indeed remarkable and created a corresponding revision of Wall
Street sentiment. At the low level of June 1962 predictions had
appeared predominantly bearish, and after the partial recovery tothe end of that year they were mixed, leaning to the skeptical side.
But at the outset of 1964 the natural optimism of brokerage firms
was again manifest; nearly all the forecasts were on the bullishside, and they so continued through the 1964 advance.
We then approached the task of appraising the November 1964
levels of the stock market (892 for the DJIA). After discussing 
it learnedly from numerous angles we reached three main con-clusions. The first was that “old standards (of valuation) appear
inapplicable; new standards have not yet been tested by time.” 
The second was that the investor “must base his policy on the existence of major uncertainties. The possibilities compass the
extremes, on the one hand, of a protracted and further advance in
the market’s level—say by 50%, or to 1350 for the DJIA; or, on theother hand, of a largely unheralded collapse of the same magni-
tude, bringing the average in the neighborhood of, say, 450" 
(p. 63). The third was expressed in much more definite terms. Wesaid: “Speaking bluntly, if the 1964 price level is not too high howcould we say that any price level is too high?” And the chapter
closed as follows:74 The Intelligent InvestorWHAT COURSE TO FOLLOW
Investors should not conclude that the 1964 market level is dan-
gerous merely because they read it in this book. They must weigh
our reasoning against the contrary reasoning they will hear frommost competent and experienced people on Wall Street. In the end
each one must make his own decision and accept responsibility
therefor. We suggest, however, that if the investor is in doubt as towhich course to pursue he should choose the path of caution. The
principles of investment, as set forth herein, would call for the fol-
lowing policy under 1964 conditions, in order of urgency:
1. No borrowing to buy or hold securities.2. No increase in the proportion of funds held in common stocks.3. A reduction in common-stock holdings where needed to bring
it down to a maximum of 50 per cent of the total portfolio. Thecapital-gains tax must be paid with as good grace as possible,and the proceeds invested in first-quality bonds or held as asavings deposit.
Investors who for some time have been following a bona fide
dollar-cost averaging plan can in logic elect either to continue their
periodic purchases unchanged or to suspend them until they feel
the market level is no longer dangerous. We should advise ratherstrongly against the initiation of a new dollar-averaging plan at the
late 1964 levels, since many investors would not have the stamina
to pursue such a scheme if the results soon after initiation shouldappear highly unfavorable.
This time we can say that our caution was vindicated. The DJIA
advanced about 11% further, to 995, but then fell irregularly to a
low of 632 in 1970, and finished that year at 839. The same kind of
debacle took place in the price of “hot issues”—i.e., with declines
running as much as 90%—as had happened in the 1961–62 setback.And, as pointed out in the Introduction, the whole financial pictureappeared to have changed in the direction of less enthusiasm andgreater doubts. A single fact may summarize the story: The DJIAclosed 1970 at a level lower than six years before—the first timesuch a thing had happened since 1944.A Century of Stock-Market History 75Such were our efforts to evaluate former stock-market levels. Is
there anything we and our readers can learn from them? We con-
sidered the market level favorable for investment in 1948 and 1953
(but too cautiously in the latter year), “dangerous” in 1959 (at 584for DJIA), and “too high” (at 892) in 1964. All of these judgmentscould be defended even today by adroit arguments. But it is doubt-ful if they have been as useful as our more pedestrian counsels—infavor of a consistent and controlled common-stock policy on the
one hand, and discouraging endeavors to “beat the market” or to
“pick the winners” on the other.
Nonetheless we think our readers may derive some benefit from
a renewed consideration of the level of the stock market—this timeas of late 1971—even if what we have to say will prove more inter-esting than practically useful, or more indicative than conclusive.There is a fine passage near the beginning of Aristotle’s Ethics that
goes: “It is the mark of an educated mind to expect that amount ofexactness which the nature of the particular subject admits. It is
equally unreasonable to accept merely probable conclusions from a
mathematician and to demand strict demonstration from an ora-tor.” The work of a financial analyst falls somewhere in the middle
between that of a mathematician and of an orator.
At various times in 1971 the Dow Jones Industrial Average stood
at the 892 level of November 1964 that we considered in our previ-ous edition. But in the present statistical study we have decided to
use the price level and the related data for the Standard & Poor’scomposite index (or S & P 500), because it is more comprehensive
and representative of the general market than the 30-stock DJIA.We shall concentrate on a comparison of this material near the four
dates of our former editions—namely the year-ends of 1948, 1953,
1958 and 1963—plus 1968; for the current price level we shall take
the convenient figure of 100, which was registered at various timesin 1971 and in early 1972. The salient data are set forth in Table 3-3.
For our earnings figures we present both the last year’s showing
and the average of three calendar years; for 1971 dividends we usethe last twelve months’ figures; and for 1971 bond interest andwholesale prices those of August 1971.
The 3-year price/earnings ratio for the market was lower in
October 1971 than at year-end 1963 and 1968. It was about the sameas in 1958, but much higher than in the early years of the long bull76 The Intelligent Investor1948
15.20
2.24
1.65
.93
2.77%
87.9
6.3/H11003
9.2/H11003
10.9 %
5.6 %3.96/H11003
2.1/H11003
11.2 %1953
24.81
2.51
2.44
1.48
3.08%
92.7
9.9/H11003
10.2 /H11003
9.8 %
5.5 %
3.20/H11003
1.8/H11003
11.8 %1958
55.21
2.89
2.22
1.75
4.12%
100.4
18.4 /H11003
17.6 /H11003
5.8 %
3.3 %
1.41/H11003
.80/H11003
12.8 %1963
75.02
4.023.632.28
4.36%
105.0
18.6 /H11003
20.7 /H11003
4.8 %3.04%
1.10/H11003
.70/H11003
10.5 %1968
103.9
5.765.372.99
6.51%
108.7
18.0 /H11003
19.5 /H11003
5.15%2.87%
.80/H11003
.44/H11003
11.5 %1971
100
d
5.235.533.10
7.57%
114.3
19.2 /H11003
18.1 /H11003
5.53%3.11%
.72/H11003
.41/H11003
11.5 %TABLE 3-3 Data Relating to Standard & Poor’s Composite Index in V arious Years
Yeara
Closing price
Earned in current year
Average earnings of last 3 years
Dividend in current year
High-grade bond interesta
Wholesale-price indexRatios:
Price/last year’s earnings
Price/3-years’ earnings
3-Years’ “earnings yield”
c
Dividend yieldStock-earnings yield/bond yield
Dividend yield/bond yield
Earnings/book value
e
aYield on S & P AAA bonds.
bCalendar years in 1948–1968, plus year ended June 1971.
c“Earnings yield” means the earnings divided by the price, in %.
dPrice in Oct. 1971, equivalent to 900 for the DJIA.
eThree-year average figures.market. This important indicator, taken by itself, could not be con-
strued to indicate that the market was especially high in January
1972. But when the interest yield on high-grade bonds is brought
into the picture, the implications become much less favorable. Thereader will note from our table that the ratio of stock returns (earn-ings/price) to bond returns has grown worse during the entireperiod, so that the January 1972 figure was less favorable to stocks,by this criterion, than in any of the previous years examined. When
dividend yields are compared with bond yields we find that the
relationship was completely reversed between 1948 and 1972. Inthe early year stocks yielded twice as much as bonds; now bonds
yield twice as much, and more, than stocks.
Our final judgment is that the adverse change in the bond-
yield/stock-yield ratio fully offsets the better price/earnings ratio
for late 1971, based on the 3-year earnings figures. Hence our viewof the early 1972 market level would tend to be the same as it wassome 7 years ago—i.e., that it is an unattractive one from the stand-
point of conservative investment. (This would apply to most of the
1971 price range of the DJIA: between, say, 800 and 950.)
In terms of historical market swings the 1971 picture would still
appear to be one of irregular recovery from the bad setback suf-fered in 1969–1970. In the past such recoveries have ushered in anew stage of the recurrent and persistent bull market that began in
1949. (This was the expectation of Wall Street generally during
1971.) After the terrible experience suffered by the public buyers oflow-grade common-stock offerings in the 1968–1970 cycle, it is too
early (in 1971) for another twirl of the new-issue merry-go-round.Hence that dependable sign of imminent danger in the market is
lacking now, as it was at the 892 level of the DJIA in November
1964, considered in our previous edition. Technically, then, the out-
look would appear to favor another substantial rise far beyond the900 DJIA level before the next serious setback or collapse. But we
cannot quite leave the matter there, as perhaps we should. To us,
the early-1971-market’s disregard of the harrowing experiences ofless than a year before is a disquieting sign. Can such heedlessnessgo unpunished? We think the investor must be prepared for diffi-cult times ahead—perhaps in the form of a fairly quick replay ofthe the 1969–1970 decline, or perhaps in the form of another bull-market fling, to be followed by a more catastrophic collapse.
378 The Intelligent InvestorWhat Course to Follow
Turn back to what we said in the last edition, reproduced on 
p. 75. This is our view at the same price level—say 900—for the
DJIA in early 1972 as it was in late 1964.A Century of Stock-Market History 79COMMENTARY ON C HAPTER 3
You’ve got to be careful if you don’t know where you’re going,
’cause you might not get there.
—Yogi Berra
BULL-MARKET BALONEY
In this chapter, Graham shows how prophetic he can be. He looks 
two years ahead, foreseeing the “catastrophic” bear market of1973–1974, in which U.S. stocks lost 37% of their value.
1He also
looks more than two decades into the future, eviscerating the logic ofmarket gurus and best-selling books that were not even on the horizonin his lifetime.
The heart of Graham’s argument is that the intelligent investor must
never forecast the future exclusively by extrapolating the past. Unfortu-nately, that’s exactly the mistake that one pundit after another made in
the 1990s. A stream of bullish books followed Wharton finance pro-
fessor Jeremy Siegel’s Stocks for the Long Run (1994)—culminating,
in a wild crescendo, with James Glassman and Kevin Hassett’s Dow
36,000, David Elias’ Dow 40,000, and Charles Kadlec’s Dow
100,000 (all published in 1999). Forecasters argued that stocks had
returned an annual average of 7% after inflation ever since 1802.
Therefore, they concluded, that’s what investors should expect in the
future.
Some bulls went further. Since stocks had “always” beaten bonds
over any period of at least 30 years, stocks must be less risky thanbonds or even cash in the bank. And if you can eliminate all the risk ofowning stocks simply by hanging on to them long enough, then why
801If dividends are not included, stocks fell 47 .8% in those two years.quibble over how much you pay for them in the first place? (To find out
why, see the sidebar on p. 82.)
In 1999 and early 2000, bull-market baloney was everywhere:
• On December 7 , 1999, Kevin Landis, portfolio manager of the
Firsthand mutual funds, appeared on CNN’s Moneyline telecast.
Asked if wireless telecommunication stocks were overvalued—
with many trading at infinite multiples of their earnings—Landishad a ready answer. “It’s not a mania, ” he shot back. “Look at theoutright growth, the absolute value of the growth. It’s big. ”
• On January 18, 2000, Robert Froelich, chief investment strategist
at the Kemper Funds, declared in the Wall Street Journal: “It’s a
new world order. We see people discard all the right companies
with all the right people with the right vision because their stock
price is too high—that’s the worst mistake an investor can make. ”
• In the April 10, 2000, issue of BusinessWeek, Jeffrey M. Apple-
gate, then the chief investment strategist at Lehman Brothers,
asked rhetorically: “Is the stock market riskier today than two
years ago simply because prices are higher? The answer is no.”
But the answer is yes.It always has been. It always will be.
And when Graham asked, “Can such heedlessness go unpun-
ished?” he knew that the eternal answer to that question is no.Like an
enraged Greek god, the stock market crushed everyone who hadcome to believe that the high returns of the late 1990s were some
kind of divine right. Just look at how those forecasts by Landis,
Froelich, and Applegate held up:
• From 2000 through 2002, the most stable of Landis’s pet wire-
less stocks, Nokia, lost “only” 67%—while the worst, Winstar
Communications, lost 99.9%.
• Froelich’s favorite stocks—Cisco Systems and Motorola—fell more
than 70% by late 2002. Investors lost over $400 billion on Ciscoalone—more than the annual economic output of Hong Kong,
Israel, Kuwait, and Singapore combined.
• In April 2000, when Applegate asked his rhetorical question, the
Dow Jones Industrials stood at 11,187; the NASDAQ Composite
Index was at 4446. By the end of 2002, the Dow was hobblingaround the 8,300 level, while NASDAQ had withered to roughly1300—eradicating all its gains over the previous six years.Commentary on Chapter 3 81SURVIVAL OF THE FATTEST
There was a fatal flaw in the argument that stocks have “always”
beaten bonds in the long run: Reliable figures before 1871 donot exist. The indexes used to represent the U.S. stock market’s
earliest returns contain as few as seven (yes, 7!) stocks.
1By
1800, however, there were some 300 companies in America(many in the Jeffersonian equivalents of the Internet: wooden
turnpikes and canals). Most went bankrupt, and their investorslost their knickers.
But the stock indexes ignore all the companies that went
bust in those early years, a problem technically known as “sur-vivorship bias. ” Thus these indexes wildly overstate the results
earned by real-life investors—who lacked the 20/20 hindsight
necessary to know exactly which seven stocks to buy. A lonelyhandful of companies, including Bank of New York and J. P. Mor-gan Chase, have prospered continuously since the 1790s. Butfor every such miraculous survivor, there were thousands offinancial disasters like the Dismal Swamp Canal Co., the Penn-sylvania Cultivation of Vines Co., and the Snickers’s Gap Turn-pike Co.—all omitted from the “historical” stock indexes.
Jeremy Siegel’s data show that, after inflation, from 1802
through 1870 stocks gained 7 .0% per year, bonds 4.8%, andcash 5.1%. But Elroy Dimson and his colleagues at LondonBusiness School estimate that the pre-1871 stock returns are
overstated by at least two percentage points per year.
2In the
real world, then, stocks did no better than cash and bonds—and
perhaps a bit worse. Anyone who claims that the long-termrecord “proves” that stocks are guaranteed to outperformbonds or cash is an ignoramus.
1By the 1840s, these indexes had widened to include a maximum of seven finan-
cial stocks and 27 railroad stocks—still an absurdly unrepresentative sample of the
rambunctious young American stock market.
2See Jason Zweig, “New Cause for Caution on Stocks, ” Time, May 6, 2002,
p. 71. As Graham hints on p. 65, even the stock indexes between 1871 andthe 1920s suffer from survivorship bias, thanks to the hundreds of automobile,aviation, and radio companies that went bust without a trace. These returns,too, are probably overstated by one to two percentage points.THE HIGHER THEY GO, 
THE HARDER THEY FALL
As the enduring antidote to this kind of bull-market baloney, Graham
urges the intelligent investor to ask some simple, skeptical questions.Why should the future returns of stocks always be the same as their
past returns? When every investor comes to believe that stocks are
guaranteed to make money in the long run, won’t the market end up
being wildly overpriced? And once that happens, how can futurereturns possibly be high?
Graham’s answers, as always, are rooted in logic and common
sense. The value of any investment is, and always must be, a functionof the price you pay for it. By the late 1990s, inflation was witheringaway, corporate profits appeared to be booming, and most of theworld was at peace. But that did not mean—nor could it ever mean—that stocks were worth buying at any price. Since the profits that com-
panies can earn are finite, the price that investors should be willing topay for stocks must also be finite.
Think of it this way: Michael Jordan may well have been the great-
est basketball player of all time, and he pulled fans into Chicago Sta-dium like a giant electromagnet. The Chicago Bulls got a bargain bypaying Jordan up to $34 million a year to bounce a big leather ball
around a wooden floor. But that does not mean the Bulls would have
been justified paying him $340 million, or $3.4 billion, or $34 billion,per season.
THE LIMITS OF OPTIMISM
Focusing on the market’s recent returns when they have been rosy,
warns Graham, will lead to “a quite illogical and dangerous conclusion
that equally marvelous results could be expected for common stocks
in the future. ” From 1995 through 1999, as the market rose by at least20% each year—a surge unprecedented in American history—stock
buyers became ever more optimistic:
• In mid-1998, investors surveyed by the Gallup Organization for
the PaineWebber brokerage firm expected their portfolios to earn
an average of roughly 13% over the year to come. By early 2000,their average expected return had jumped to more than 18%.Commentary on Chapter 3 83• “Sophisticated professionals” were just as bullish, jacking up their
own assumptions of future returns. In 2001, for instance, SBC
Communications raised the projected return on its pension planfrom 8.5% to 9.5%. By 2002, the average assumed rate of returnon the pension plans of companies in the Standard & Poor’s 500-
stock index had swollen to a record-high 9.2%.
A quick follow-up shows the awful aftermath of excess enthusiasm:
• Gallup found in 2001 and 2002 that the average expectation of
one-year returns on stocks had slumped to 7%—even thoughinvestors could now buy at prices nearly 50% lower than in2000.
2
• Those gung-ho assumptions about the returns on their pension
plans will cost the companies in the S & P 500 a bare minimum of$32 billion between 2002 and 2004, according to recent WallStreet estimates.
Even though investors all know they’re supposed to buy low and
sell high, in practice they often end up getting it backwards. Graham’s
warning in this chapter is simple: “By the rule of opposites, ” the moreenthusiastic investors become about the stock market in the long run,the more certain they are to be proved wrong in the short run. OnMarch 24, 2000, the total value of the U.S. stock market peaked at$14.75 trillion. By October 9, 2002, just 30 months later, the total
U.S. stock market was worth $7 .34 trillion, or 50.2% less—a loss of
$7 .41 trillion. Meanwhile, many market pundits turned sourly bear-
ish, predicting flat or even negative market returns for years—evendecades—to come.
At this point, Graham would ask one simple question: Considering
how calamitously wrong the “experts” were the last time they agreedon something, why on earth should the intelligent investor believe
them now?84 Commentary on Chapter 3
2Those cheaper stock prices do not mean, of course, that investors’ expec-
tation of a 7% stock return will be realized.WHAT’S NEXT?
Instead, let’s tune out the noise and think about future returns as Gra-
ham might. The stock market’s performance depends on three factors:
• real growth (the rise of companies’ earnings and dividends)
• inflationary growth (the general rise of prices throughout the
economy)
• speculative growth—or decline (any increase or decrease in the
investing public’s appetite for stocks)
In the long run, the yearly growth in corporate earnings per share
has averaged 1.5% to 2% (not counting inflation).3As of early 2003,
inflation was running around 2.4% annually; the dividend yield onstocks was 1.9%. So,
1.5% to 2%
+ 2.4%
+ 1.9%
= 5.8% to 6.3%
In the long run, that means you can reasonably expect stocks to
average roughly a 6% return (or 4% after inflation). If the investingpublic gets greedy again and sends stocks back into orbit, then thatspeculative fever will temporarily drive returns higher. If, instead,investors are full of fear, as they were in the 1930s and 1970s, thereturns on stocks will go temporarily lower. (That’s where we are in
2003.)
Robert Shiller, a finance professor at Yale University, says Graham
inspired his valuation approach: Shiller compares the current price ofthe Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index against average corporate
profits over the past 10 years (after inflation). By scanning the histori-cal record, Shiller has shown that when his ratio goes well above 20,
the market usually delivers poor returns afterward; when it drops wellCommentary on Chapter 3 85
3See Jeremy Siegel, Stocks for the Long Run (McGraw-Hill, 2002), p. 94,
and Robert Arnott and William Bernstein, “The Two Percent Dilution, ” work-
ing paper, July, 2002.86 Commentary on Chapter 3
FIGURE 3-1
Price/earnings ratio Total return over
Year next 10 years
1898 21.4 /H11002 9.2
1900 20.7 /H11002 7.1
1901 21.7 /H11002 5.9
1905 19.6 /H11002 5.0
1929 22.0 /H110020.1
1936 21.1 /H11002 4.4
1955 18.9 /H1100211.1
1959 18.6 /H11002 7.8
1961 22.0 /H11002 7.1
1962 18.6 /H11002 9.9
1963 21.0 /H11002 6.0
1964 22.8 /H11002 1.2
1965 23.7 /H11002 3.3
1966 19.7 /H11002 6.6
1967 21.8 /H11002 3.6
1968 22.3 /H11002 3.2
1972 18.6 /H11002 6.7
1992 20.4 /H11002 9.3
Averages 20.8 /H11002 6.0
Sources: http://aida.econ.yale.edu/~shiller/data/ie_data.htm;
Jack Wilson and Charles Jones, “An Analysis of the S & P 500 Index and Cowles’Extensions: Price Index and Stock Returns, 1870–1999,” The Journal of Business, vol.
75, no. 3, July, 2002, pp. 527–529; Ibbotson Associates.
Notes: Price/earnings ratio is Shiller calculation (10-year average real earnings of 
S & P 500-stock index divided by December 31 index value). Total return is nominalannual average.below 10, stocks typically produce handsome gains down the road. In
early 2003, by Shiller’s math, stocks were priced at about 22.8 timesthe average inflation-adjusted earnings of the past decade—still in thedanger zone, but way down from their demented level of 44.2 timesearnings in December 1999.
How has the market done in the past when it was priced around
today’s levels? Figure 3-1 shows the previous periods when stockswere at similar highs, and how they fared over the 10-year stretches
that followed:So, from valuation levels similar to those of early 2003, the stock
market has sometimes done very well in the ensuing 10 years, some-
times poorly, and muddled along the rest of the time. I think Graham,ever the conservative, would split the difference between the lowestand highest past returns and project that over the next decade stocks
will earn roughly 6% annually, or 4% after inflation. (Interestingly, thatprojection matches the estimate we got earlier when we added
together real growth, inflationary growth, and speculative growth.)
Compared to the 1990s, 6% is chicken feed. But it’s a whisker betterthan the gains that bonds are likely to produce—and reason enough for
most investors to hang on to stocks as part of a diversified portfolio.
But there is a second lesson in Graham’s approach. The only thing
you can be confident of while forecasting future stock returns is that
you will probably turn out to be wrong. The only indisputable truth thatthe past teaches us is that the future will always surprise us—always!And the corollary to that law of financial history is that the markets will
most brutally surprise the very people who are most certain that their
views about the future are right. Staying humble about your forecast-ing powers, as Graham did, will keep you from risking too much on a
view of the future that may well turn out to be wrong.
So, by all means, you should lower your expectations—but take care
not to depress your spirit. For the intelligent investor, hope always
springs eternal, because it should. In the financial markets, the worse
the future looks, the better it usually turns out to be. A cynic once toldG. K. Chesterton, the British novelist and essayist, “Blessed is he who
expecteth nothing, for he shall not be disappointed. ” Chesterton’srejoinder? “Blessed is he who expecteth nothing, for he shall enjoy
everything. ”Commentary on Chapter 3 87CHAPTER 4
General Portfolio Policy: 
The Defensive Investor
The basic characteristics of an investment portfolio are usually
determined by the position and characteristics of the owner or
owners. At one extreme we have had savings banks, life-insurancecompanies, and so-called legal trust funds. A generation ago theirinvestments were limited by law in many states to high-grade
bonds and, in some cases, high-grade preferred stocks. At the other
extreme we have the well-to-do and experienced businessman,who will include any kind of bond or stock in his security list pro-
vided he considers it an attractive purchase.
It has been an old and sound principle that those who cannot
afford to take risks should be content with a relatively low returnon their invested funds. From this there has developed the general
notion that the rate of return which the investor should aim for ismore or less proportionate to the degree of risk he is ready to run.
Our view is different. The rate of return sought should be depen-
dent, rather, on the amount of intelligent effort the investor is will-ing and able to bring to bear on his task. The minimum return goes
to our passive investor, who wants both safety and freedom fromconcern. The maximum return would be realized by the alert and
enterprising investor who exercises maximum intelligence and
skill. In 1965 we added: “In many cases there may be less real risk
associated with buying a ‘bargain issue’ offering the chance of alarge profit than with a conventional bond purchase yielding about4
1⁄2%.” This statement had more truth in it than we ourselves sus-
pected, since in subsequent years even the best long-term bondslost a substantial part of their market value because of the rise ininterest rates.
88The Basic Problem of Bond-Stock Allocation
We have already outlined in briefest form the portfolio policy of
the defensive investor.* He should divide his funds between high-
grade bonds and high-grade common stocks.
We have suggested as a fundamental guiding rule that the
investor should never have less than 25% or more than 75% of his
funds in common stocks, with a consequent inverse range ofbetween 75% and 25% in bonds. There is an implication here that
the standard division should be an equal one, or 50–50, between
the two major investment mediums. According to tradition thesound reason for increasing the percentage in common stockswould be the appearance of the “bargain price” levels created in aprotracted bear market. Conversely, sound procedure would callfor reducing the common-stock component below 50% when in 
the judgment of the investor the market level has become danger-
ously high.
These copybook maxims have always been easy to enunciate
and always difficult to follow—because they go against that veryhuman nature which produces that excesses of bull and bear mar-kets. It is almost a contradiction in terms to suggest as a feasible
policy for the average stockowner that he lighten his holdings when
the market advances beyond a certain point and add to them after
a corresponding decline. It is because the average man operates,
and apparently must operate, in opposite fashion that we have had
the great advances and collapses of the past; and—this writerbelieves—we are likely to have them in the future.
If the division between investment and speculative operations
were as clear now as once it was, we might be able to envisageinvestors as a shrewd, experienced group who sell out to the heed-
less, hapless speculators at high prices and buy back from them at
depressed levels. This picture may have had some verisimilitude inbygone days, but it is hard to identify it with financial develop-
ments since 1949. There is no indication that such professional
operations as those of the mutual funds have been conducted inthis fashion. The percentage of the portfolio held in equities by theGeneral Portfolio Policy 89
* See Graham’s “Conclusion” to Chapter 2, p. 56–57 .two major types of funds—“balanced” and “common-stock”—has
changed very little from year to year. Their selling activities have
been largely related to endeavors to switch from less to more
promising holdings.
If, as we have long believed, the stock market has lost contact
with its old bounds, and if new ones have not yet been established,then we can give the investor no reliable rules by which to reducehis common-stock holdings toward the 25% minimum and rebuild
them later to the 75% maximum. We can urge that in general the
investor should not have more than one-half in equities unless hehas strong confidence in the soundness of his stock position and is
sure that he could view a market decline of the 1969–70 type with
equanimity. It is hard for us to see how such strong confidence canbe justified at the levels existing in early 1972. Thus we wouldcounsel against a greater than 50% apportionment to commonstocks at this time. But, for complementary reasons, it is almostequally difficult to advise a reduction of the figure well below 50%,
unless the investor is disquieted in his own mind about the current
market level, and will be satisfied also to limit his participation in
any further rise to, say, 25% of his total funds.
We are thus led to put forward for most of our readers what may
appear to be an oversimplified 50–50 formula. Under this plan theguiding rule is to maintain as nearly as practicable an equal divi-
sion between bond and stock holdings. When changes in the mar-
ket level have raised the common-stock component to, say, 55%,the balance would be restored by a sale of one-eleventh of the stock
portfolio and the transfer of the proceeds to bonds. Conversely, afall in the common-stock proportion to 45% would call for the use
of one-eleventh of the bond fund to buy additional equities.
Yale University followed a somewhat similar plan for a number
of years after 1937, but it was geared around a 35% “normal hold-ing” in common stocks. In the early 1950s, however, Yale seems to
have given up its once famous formula, and in 1969 held 61% of its
portfolio in equities (including some convertibles). (At that timethe endowment funds of 71 such institutions, totaling $7.6 billion,held 60.3% in common stocks.) The Yale example illustrates thealmost lethal effect of the great market advance upon the once pop-ular formula approach to investment. Nonetheless we are convinced
that our 50–50 version of this approach makes good sense for the90 The Intelligent Investordefensive investor. It is extremely simple; it aims unquestionably in
the right direction; it gives the follower the feeling that he is at least
making some moves in response to market developments; most
important of all, it will restrain him from being drawn more andmore heavily into common stocks as the market rises to more andmore dangerous heights.
Furthermore, a truly conservative investor will be satisfied with
the gains shown on half his portfolio in a rising market, while in a
severe decline he may derive much solace from reflecting how
much better off he is than many of his more venturesome friends.
While our proposed 50–50 division is undoubtedly the simplest
“all-purpose program” devisable, it may not turn out to be the bestin terms of results achieved. (Of course, no approach, mechanicalor otherwise, can be advanced with any assurance that it will workout better than another.) The much larger income return nowoffered by good bonds than by representative stocks is a potentargument for favoring the bond component. The investor’s choice
between 50% or a lower figure in stocks may well rest mainly on
his own temperament and attitude. If he can act as a cold-bloodedweigher of the odds, he would be likely to favor the low 25% stock
component at this time, with the idea of waiting until the DJIA div-
idend yield was, say, two-thirds of the bond yield before he wouldestablish his median 50–50 division between bonds and stocks.
Starting from 900 for the DJIA and dividends of $36 on the unit,
this would require either a fall in taxable bond yields from 7
1⁄2% to
about 5.5% without any change in the present return on leadingstocks, or a fall in the DJIA to as low as 660 if there is no reductionin bond yields and no increase in dividends. A combination ofintermediate changes could produce the same “buying point.” Aprogram of that kind is not especially complicated; the hard part is
to adopt it and to stick to it not to mention the possibility that it
may turn out to have been much too conservative.
The Bond Component
The choice of issues in the bond component of the investor’s
portfolio will turn about two main questions: Should he buy tax-able or tax-free bonds, and should he buy shorter- or longer-termmaturities? The tax decision should be mainly a matter of arith-General Portfolio Policy 91metic, turning on the difference in yields as compared with the
investor’s tax bracket. In January 1972 the choice in 20-year maturi-
ties was between obtaining, say, 71⁄2% on “grade Aa” corporate
bonds and 5.3% on prime tax-free issues. (The term “municipals” isgenerally applied to all species of tax-exempt bonds, including
state obligations.) There was thus for this maturity a loss in incomeof some 30% in passing from the corporate to the municipal field.
Hence if the investor was in a maximum tax bracket higher than30% he would have a net saving after taxes by choosing the munic-ipal bonds; the opposite, if his maximum tax was less than 30%. Asingle person starts paying a 30% rate when his income afterdeductions passes $10,000; for a married couple the rate applieswhen combined taxable income passes $20,000. It is evident that alarge proportion of individual investors would obtain a higherreturn after taxes from good municipals than from good corporate
bonds.
The choice of longer versus shorter maturities involves quite a
different question, viz.: Does the investor want to assure himselfagainst a decline in the price of his bonds, but at the cost of (1) a
lower annual yield and (2) loss of the possibility of an appreciable
gain in principal value? We think it best to discuss this question in
Chapter 8, The Investor and Market Fluctuations.
For a period of many years in the past the only sensible bond
purchases for individuals were the U.S. savings issues. Their safetywas—and is—unquestioned; they gave a higher return than other
bond investments of first quality; they had a money-back option
and other privileges which added greatly to their attractiveness. Inour earlier editions we had an entire chapter entitled “U.S. Savings
Bonds: A Boon to Investors.”
As we shall point out, U.S. savings bonds still possess certain
unique merits that make them a suitable purchase by any individ-ual investor. For the man of modest capital—with, say, not more
than $10,000 to put into bonds—we think they are still the easiestand the best choice. But those with larger funds may find other
mediums more desirable.
Let us list a few major types of bonds that deserve investor con-
sideration, and discuss them briefly with respect to general
description, safety, yield, market price, risk, income-tax status, andother features.92 The Intelligent Investor1.u.s. savings bonds, series e and series h. We shall first sum-
marize their important provisions, and then discuss briefly the
numerous advantages of these unique, attractive, and exceedingly
convenient investments. The Series H bonds pay interest semi-annually, as do other bonds. The rate is 4.29% for the first year, andthen a flat 5.10% for the next nine years to maturity. Interest on theSeries E bonds is not paid out, but accrues to the holder throughincrease in redemption value. The bonds are sold at 75% of their
face value, and mature at 100% in 5 years 10 months after purchase.
If held to maturity the yield works out at 5%, compounded semi-annually. If redeemed earlier, the yield moves up from a minimum
of 4.01% in the first year to an average of 5.20% in the next 4
5⁄6years.
Interest on the bonds is subject to Federal income tax, but is
exempt from state income tax. However, Federal income tax on the
Series E bonds may be paid at the holder’s option either annuallyas the interest accrues (through higher redemption value), or notuntil the bond is actually disposed of.
Owners of Series E bonds may cash them in at any time (shortly
after purchase) at their current redemption value. Holders of SeriesH bonds have similar rights to cash them in at par value (cost).Series E bonds are exchangeable for Series H bonds, with certaintax advantages. Bonds lost, destroyed, or stolen may be replaced
without cost. There are limitations on annual purchases, but liberal
provisions for co-ownership by family members make it possiblefor most investors to buy as many as they can afford. Comment:
There is no other investment that combines (1) absolute assuranceof principal and interest payments, (2) the right to demand full“money back” at any time, and (3) guarantee of at least a 5% inter-
est rate for at least ten years. Holders of the earlier issues of Series
E bonds have had the right to extend their bonds at maturity, andthus to continue to accumulate annual values at successively
higher rates. The deferral of income-tax payments over these long
periods has been of great dollar advantage; we calculate it hasincreased the effective net-after-tax rate received by as much as a
third in typical cases. Conversely, the right to cash in the bonds at
cost price or better has given the purchasers in former years of lowinterest rates complete protection against the shrinkage in princi-pal value that befell many bond investors; otherwise stated, it gavethem the possibility of benefiting from the rise in interest rates byGeneral Portfolio Policy 93switching their low-interest holdings into very-high-coupon issues
on an even-money basis.
In our view the special advantages enjoyed by owners of sav-
ings bonds now will more than compensate for their lower currentreturn as compared with other direct government obligations.
2.other united states bonds. A profusion of these issues exists,
covering a wide variety of coupon rates and maturity dates. All ofthem are completely safe with respect to payment of interest andprincipal. They are subject to Federal income taxes but free fromstate income tax. In late 1971 the long-term issues—over ten years—
showed an average yield of 6.09%, intermediate issues (three to five
years) returned 6.35%, and short issues returned 6.03%.
In 1970 it was possible to buy a number of old issues at large dis-
counts. Some of these are accepted at par in settlement of estatetaxes. Example: The U.S. Treasury 3
1⁄2s due 1990 are in this category;
they sold at 60 in 1970, but closed 1970 above 77.
It is interesting to note also that in many cases the indirect obli-
gations of the U.S. government yield appreciably more than itsdirect obligations of the same maturity. As we write, an offering
appears of 7.05% of “Certificates Fully Guaranteed by the Secretary
of Transportation of the Department of Transportation of theUnited States.” The yield was fully 1% more than that on direct
obligations of the U.S., maturing the same year (1986). The certifi-
cates were actually issued in the name of the Trustees of the PennCentral Transportation Co., but they were sold on the basis of astatement by the U.S. Attorney General that the guarantee “bringsinto being a general obligation of the United States, backed by itsfull faith and credit.” Quite a number of indirect obligations of this
sort have been assumed by the U.S. government in the past, and all
of them have been scrupulously honored.
The reader may wonder why all this hocus-pocus, involving an
apparently “personal guarantee” by our Secretary of Transporta-tion, and a higher cost to the taxpayer in the end. The chief reasonfor the indirection has been the debt limit imposed on govern-ment borrowing by the Congress. Apparently guarantees by thegovernment are not regarded as debts—a semantic windfall forshrewder investors. Perhaps the chief impact of this situation hasbeen the creation of tax-free Housing Authority bonds, enjoying94 The Intelligent Investorthe equivalent of a U.S. guarantee, and virtually the only tax-
exempt issues that are equivalent to government bonds. Another
type of government-backed issues is the recently created New
Community Debentures, offered to yield 7.60% in September 1971.
3.state and municipal bonds. These enjoy exemption from
Federal income tax. They are also ordinarily free of income tax in
the state of issue but not elsewhere. They are either direct obliga-tions of a state or subdivision, or “revenue bonds” dependent forinterest payments on receipts from a toll road, bridge, buildinglease, etc. Not all tax-free bonds are strongly enough protected tojustify their purchase by a defensive investor. He may be guided inhis selection by the rating given to each issue by Moody’s or Stan-
dard & Poor’s. One of three highest ratings by both services—Aaa(AAA), Aa (AA), or A—should constitute a sufficient indication of
adequate safety. The yield on these bonds will vary both with thequality and the maturity, with the shorter maturities giving the
lower return. In late 1971 the issues represented in Standard &
Poor’s municipal bond index averaged AA in quality rating, 20
years in maturity, and 5.78% in yield. A typical offering ofVineland, N.J., bonds, rated AA for A and gave a yield of only 3%
on the one-year maturity, rising to 5.8% to the 1995 and 1996 matu-
rities.
1
4.corporation bonds. These bonds are subject to both Federal
and state tax. In early 1972 those of highest quality yielded 7.19%for a 25-year maturity, as reflected in the published yield ofMoody’s Aaa corporate bond index. The so-called lower-medium-grade issues—rated Baa—returned 8.23% for long maturities. In
each class shorter-term issues would yield somewhat less than
longer-term obligations.
Comment. The above summaries indicate that the average
investor has several choices among high-grade bonds. Those inhigh income-tax brackets can undoubtedly obtain a better net yieldfrom good tax-free issues than from taxable ones. For others the
early 1972 range of taxable yield would seem to be from 5.00% on
U.S. savings bonds, with their special options, to about 7
1⁄2% on
high-grade corporate issues.General Portfolio Policy 95Higher-Yielding Bond Investments
By sacrificing quality an investor can obtain a higher income
return from his bonds. Long experience has demonstrated that the
ordinary investor is wiser to keep away from such high-yieldbonds. While, taken as a whole, they may work out somewhat bet-ter in terms of overall return than the first-quality issues, theyexpose the owner to too many individual risks of untoward devel-opments, ranging from disquieting price declines to actual default.
(It is true that bargain opportunities occur fairly often in lower-
grade bonds, but these require special study and skill to exploitsuccessfully.)*
Perhaps we should add here that the limits imposed by Con-
gress on direct bond issues of the United States have produced atleast two sorts of “bargain opportunities” for investors in the pur-chase of government-backed obligations. One is provided by thetax-exempt “New Housing” issues, and the other by the recentlycreated (taxable) “New Community debentures.” An offering of
New Housing issues in July 1971 yielded as high as 5.8%, free from
both Federal and state taxes, while an issue of (taxable) New Com-munity debentures sold in September 1971 yielded 7.60%. Bothobligations have the “full faith and credit” of the United Statesgovernment behind them and hence are safe without question.And—on a net basis—they yield considerably more than ordinary
United States bonds.†96 The Intelligent Investor
* Graham’s objection to high-yield bonds is mitigated today by the wide-
spread availability of mutual funds that spread the risk and do the research
of owning “junk bonds. ” See the commentary on Chapter 6 for more detail.
† The “New Housing” bonds and “New Community debentures” are nomore. New Housing Authority bonds were backed by the U.S. Department
of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) and were exempt from income
tax, but they have not been issued since 1974. New Community debentures,also backed by HUD, were authorized by a Federal law passed in 1968.About $350 million of these debentures were issued through 1975, but theprogram was terminated in 1983.Savings Deposits in Lieu of Bonds
An investor may now obtain as high an interest rate from a 
savings deposit in a commercial or savings bank (or from a bank
certificate of deposit) as he can from a first-grade bond of shortmaturity. The interest rate on bank savings accounts may be low-ered in the future, but under present conditions they are a suitablesubstitute for short-term bond investment by the individual.
Convertible Issues
These are discussed in Chapter 16. The price variability of bonds
in general is treated in Chapter 8, The Investor and Market Fluctu-
ations.
Call Provisions
In previous editions we had a fairly long discussion of this
aspect of bond financing, because it involved a serious but little
noticed injustice to the investor. In the typical case bonds werecallable fairly soon after issuance, and at modest premiums—say5%—above the issue price. This meant that during a period of widefluctuations in the underlying interest rates the investor had tobear the full brunt of unfavorable changes and was deprived of all
but a meager participation in favorable ones.
Example : Our standard example has been the issue of American
Gas & Electric 100-year 5% debentures, sold to the public at 101 in1928. Four years later, under near-panic conditions, the price of
these good bonds fell to 62
1⁄2, yielding 8%. By 1946, in a great rever-
sal, bonds of this type could be sold to yield only 3%, and the 5%
issue should have been quoted at close to 160. But at that point the
company took advantage of the call provision and redeemed the
issue at a mere 106.
The call feature in these bond contracts was a thinly disguised
instance of “heads I win, tails you lose.” At long last, the bond-buying institutions refused to accept this unfair arrangement; inrecent years most long-term high-coupon issues have been pro-tected against redemption for ten years or more after issuance. Thisstill limits their possible price rise, but not inequitably.General Portfolio Policy 97In practical terms, we advise the investor in long-term issues to
sacrifice a small amount of yield to obtain the assurance of non-
callability—say for 20 or 25 years. Similarly, there is an advantage
in buying a low-coupon bond* at a discount rather than a high-coupon bond selling at about par and callable in a few years. Forthe discount—e.g., of a 3
1⁄2% bond at 631⁄2%, yielding 7.85%—carries
full protection against adverse call action.
Straight—i.e., Nonconvertible—Preferred Stocks
Certain general observations should be made here on the subject
of preferred stocks. Really good preferred stocks can and do exist,
but they are good in spite of their investment form, which is an
inherently bad one. The typical preferred shareholder is dependentfor his safety on the ability and desire of the company to pay divi-
dends on its common stock. Once the common dividends are omit-
ted, or even in danger, his own position becomes precarious, for
the directors are under no obligation to continue paying him unlessthey also pay on the common. On the other hand, the typical pre-ferred stock carries no share in the company’s profits beyond thefixed dividend rate. Thus the preferred holder lacks both the legal
claim of the bondholder (or creditor) and the profit possibilities of
a common shareholder (or partner).
These weaknesses in the legal position of preferred stocks tend
to come to the fore recurrently in periods of depression. Only asmall percentage of all preferred issues are so strongly entrenchedas to maintain an unquestioned investment status through all vicis-
situdes. Experience teaches that the time to buy preferred stocks is
when their price is unduly depressed by temporary adversity. (Atsuch times they may be well suited to the aggressive investor but
too unconventional for the defensive investor.)
In other words, they should be bought on a bargain basis or not
at all. We shall refer later to convertible and similarly privilegedissues, which carry some special possibilities of profits. These are
not ordinarily selected for a conservative portfolio.
Another peculiarity in the general position of preferred stocks98 The Intelligent Investor
* A bond’s “coupon” is its interest rate; a “low-coupon” bond pays a rate of
interest income below the market average.deserves mention. They have a much better tax status for corpora-
tion buyers than for individual investors. Corporations pay income
tax on only 15% of the income they receive in dividends, but on the
full amount of their ordinary interest income. Since the 1972 corpo-rate rate is 48%, this means that $100 received as preferred-stockdividends is taxed only $7.20, whereas $100 received as bond inter-est is taxed $48. On the other hand, individual investors payexactly the same tax on preferred-stock investments as on bond
interest, except for a recent minor exemption. Thus, in strict logic,
all investment-grade preferred stocks should be bought by corpo-rations, just as all tax-exempt bonds should be bought by investors
who pay income tax.*
Security Forms
The bond form and the preferred-stock form, as hitherto dis-
cussed, are well-understood and relatively simple matters. A bond-holder is entitled to receive fixed interest and payment of principal
on a definite date. The owner of a preferred stock is entitled to afixed dividend, and no more, which must be paid before any com-
mon dividend. His principal value does not come due on any spec-
ified date. (The dividend may be cumulative or noncumulative. Hemay or may not have a vote.)
The above describes the standard provisions and, no doubt, the
majority of bond and preferred issues, but there are innumerabledepartures from these forms. The best-known types are convertibleand similar issues, and income bonds. In the latter type, interestdoes not have to be paid unless it is earned by the company.(Unpaid interest may accumulate as a charge against future earn-
ings, but the period is often limited to three years.)
Income bonds should be used by corporations much moreGeneral Portfolio Policy 99
* While Graham’s logic remains valid, the numbers have changed. Corpora-
tions can currently deduct 70% of the income they receive from dividends,and the standard corporate tax rate is 35%. Thus, a corporation would payroughly $24.50 in tax on $100 in dividends from preferred stock versus$35 in tax on $100 in interest income. Individuals pay the same rate ofincome tax on dividend income that they do on interest income, so preferredstock offers them no tax advantage.extensively than they are. Their avoidance apparently arises from a
mere accident of economic history—namely, that they were first
employed in quantity in connection with railroad reorganizations,
and hence they have been associated from the start with financialweakness and poor investment status. But the form itself has sev-eral practical advantages, especially in comparison with and insubstitution for the numerous (convertible) preferred-stock issuesof recent years. Chief of these is the deductibility of the interest
paid from the company’s taxable income, which in effect cuts the
cost of that form of capital in half. From the investor’s standpoint itis probably best for him in most cases that he should have (1) an
unconditional right to receive interest payments when they are
earned by the company, and (2) a right to other forms of protection
than bankruptcy proceedings if interest is not earned and paid. The
terms of income bonds can be tailored to the advantage of both the borrower and the lender in the manner best suited to both.(Conversion privileges can, of course, be included.) The acceptance
by everybody of the inherently weak preferred-stock form and 
the rejection of the stronger income-bond form is a fascinatingillustration of the way in which traditional institutions and habits
often tend to persist on Wall Street despite new conditions calling
for a fresh point of view. With every new wave of optimism or pessimism, we are ready to abandon history and time-tested prin-
ciples, but we cling tenaciously and unquestioningly to our preju-
dices.100 The Intelligent InvestorCOMMENTARY ON C HAPTER 4
When you leave it to chance, then all of a sudden you don’t
have any more luck.
—Basketball coach Pat Riley
How aggressive should your portfolio be?
That, says Graham, depends less on what kinds of investments you
own than on what kind of investor you are. There are two ways to be
an intelligent investor:
• by continually researching, selecting, and monitoring a dynamic
mix of stocks, bonds, or mutual funds;
• or by creating a permanent portfolio that runs on autopilot and
requires no further effort (but generates very little excitement).
Graham calls the first approach “active” or “enterprising”; it takes
lots of time and loads of energy. The “passive” or “defensive” strategy
takes little time or effort but requires an almost ascetic detachment
from the alluring hullabaloo of the market. As the investment thinkerCharles Ellis has explained, the enterprising approach is physically
and intellectually taxing, while the defensive approach is emotionally
demanding.
1
If you have time to spare, are highly competitive, think like a sports
fan, and relish a complicated intellectual challenge, then the active
1011For more about the distinction between physically and intellectually difficult
investing on the one hand, and emotionally difficult investing on the other,
see Chapter 8 and also Charles D. Ellis, “Three Ways to Succeed as anInvestor, ” in Charles D. Ellis and James R. Vertin, eds., The Investor’s Anthol-
ogy(John Wiley & Sons, 1997), p. 72.approach is up your alley. If you always feel rushed, crave simplicity,
and don’t relish thinking about money, then the passive approach is foryou. (Some people will feel most comfortable combining both meth-ods—creating a portfolio that is mainly active and partly passive, orvice versa.)
Both approaches are equally intelligent, and you can be successful
with either—but only if you know yourself well enough to pick the rightone, stick with it over the course of your investing lifetime, and keep
your costs and emotions under control. Graham’s distinction betweenactive and passive investors is another of his reminders that financial
risk lies not only where most of us look for it—in the economy or in ourinvestments—but also within ourselves.
CAN YOU BE BRAVE, OR WILL YOU CAVE?
How, then, should a defensive investor get started? The first and most
basic decision is how much to put in stocks and how much to put inbonds and cash. (Note that Graham deliberately places this discus-
sion after his chapter on inflation, forearming you with the knowledge
that inflation is one of your worst enemies.)
The most striking thing about Graham’s discussion of how to allo-
cate your assets between stocks and bonds is that he never mentionsthe word “age. ” That sets his advice firmly against the winds of con-
ventional wisdom—which holds that how much investing risk you oughtto take depends mainly on how old you are.
2A traditional rule of thumb
was to subtract your age from 100 and invest that percentage of yourassets in stocks, with the rest in bonds or cash. (A 28-year-old wouldput 72% of her money in stocks; an 81-year-old would put only 19%
there.) Like everything else, these assumptions got overheated in the
late 1990s. By 1999, a popular book argued that if you were youngerthan 30 you should put 95% of your money in stocks—even if you had
only a “moderate” tolerance for risk!
3102 Commentary on Chapter 4
2A recent Google search for the phrase “age and asset allocation” turned
up more than 30,000 online references.
3James K. Glassman and Kevin A. Hassett, Dow 36,000: The New Strategy
for Profiting from the Coming Rise in the Stock Market (Times Business,
1999), p. 250.Unless you’ve allowed the proponents of this advice to subtract
100 from your IQ, you should be able to tell that something is wrong
here. Why should your age determine how much risk you can take?An 89-year-old with $3 million, an ample pension, and a gaggle ofgrandchildren would be foolish to move most of her money into bonds.
She already has plenty of income, and her grandchildren (who willeventually inherit her stocks) have decades of investing ahead of
them. On the other hand, a 25-year-old who is saving for his wedding
and a house down payment would be out of his mind to put all hismoney in stocks. If the stock market takes an Acapulco high dive, he
will have no bond income to cover his downside—or his backside.
What’s more, no matter how young you are, you might suddenly
need to yank your money out of stocks not 40 years from now, but 40
minutes from now. Without a whiff of warning, you could lose your job,get divorced, become disabled, or suffer who knows what other kindof surprise. The unexpected can strike anyone, at any age. Everyone
must keep some assets in the riskless haven of cash.
Finally, many people stop investing precisely because the stock
market goes down. Psychologists have shown that most of us do avery poor job of predicting today how we will feel about an emotionally
charged event in the future.
4When stocks are going up 15% or 20%
a year, as they did in the 1980s and 1990s, it’s easy to imagine thatyou and your stocks are married for life. But when you watch everydollar you invested getting bashed down to a dime, it’s hard to resist
bailing out into the “safety” of bonds and cash. Instead of buying and
holding their stocks, many people end up buying high, selling low, andholding nothing but their own head in their hands. Because so few
investors have the guts to cling to stocks in a falling market, Graham
insists that everyone should keep a minimum of 25% in bonds. Thatcushion, he argues, will give you the courage to keep the rest of your
money in stocks even when stocks stink.
To get a better feel for how much risk you can take, think about the
fundamental circumstances of your life, when they will kick in, whenthey might change, and how they are likely to affect your need for cash:Commentary on Chapter 4 103
4For a fascinating essay on this psychological phenomenon, see Daniel
Gilbert and Timothy Wilson’s “Miswanting, ” at www.wjh.harvard.edu/~dtg/
Gilbert_&_Wilson(Miswanting).pdf.• Are you single or married? What does your spouse or partner do
for a living?
• Do you or will you have children? When will the tuition bills hit
home?
• Will you inherit money, or will you end up financially responsible
for aging, ailing parents?
• What factors might hurt your career? (If you work for a bank or a
homebuilder, a jump in interest rates could put you out of a job. If
you work for a chemical manufacturer, soaring oil prices could bebad news.)
• If you are self-employed, how long do businesses similar to yours
tend to survive?
• Do you need your investments to supplement your cash income?
(In general, bonds will; stocks won’t.)
• Given your salary and your spending needs, how much money
can you afford to lose on your investments?
If, after considering these factors, you feel you can take the higher
risks inherent in greater ownership of stocks, you belong around
Graham’s minimum of 25% in bonds or cash. If not, then steer mostly
clear of stocks, edging toward Graham’s maximum of 75% in bondsor cash. (To find out whether you can go up to 100%, see the 
sidebar on p. 105.)
Once you set these target percentages, change them only as your
life circumstances change. Do not buy more stocks because the stockmarket has gone up; do not sell them because it has gone down. The
very heart of Graham’s approach is to replace guesswork with disci-pline. Fortunately, through your 401(k), it’s easy to put your portfolio
on permanent autopilot. Let’s say you are comfortable with a fairly high
level of risk—say, 70% of your assets in stocks and 30% in bonds. Ifthe stock market rises 25% (but bonds stay steady), you will now have
just under 75% in stocks and only 25% in bonds.
5Visit your 401(k)’s
website (or call its toll-free number) and sell enough of your stock
funds to “rebalance” back to your 70–30 target. The key is to rebal-ance on a predictable, patient schedule—not so often that you will104 Commentary on Chapter 4
5For the sake of simplicity, this example assumes that stocks rose instanta-
neously.Commentary on Chapter 4 105
WHY NOT 100% STOCKS?
Graham advises you never to have more than 75% of your total
assets in stocks. But is putting all your money into the stockmarket inadvisable for everyone? For a tiny minority of investors,
a 100%-stock portfolio may make sense. You are one of them if you:
• have set aside enough cash to support your family for at least
one year
• will be investing steadily for at least 20 years to come
• survived the bear market that began in 2000• did not sell stocks during the bear market that began in 2000• bought more stocks during the bear market that began in
2000
• have read Chapter 8 in this book and implemented a formal
plan to control your own investing behavior.
Unless you can honestly pass all these tests, you have no
business putting all your money in stocks. Anyone who panicked
in the last bear market is going to panic in the next one—and will
regret having no cushion of cash and bonds.
drive yourself crazy, and not so seldom that your targets will get out of whack. I suggest that you rebalance every six months, no more 
and no less, on easy-to-remember dates like New Year’s and theFourth of July.
The beauty of this periodic rebalancing is that it forces you to base
your investing decisions on a simple, objective standard—Do I nowown more of this asset than my plan calls for?—instead of the sheer
guesswork of where interest rates are heading or whether you think
the Dow is about to drop dead. Some mutual-fund companies, includ-ing T. Rowe Price, may soon introduce services that will automaticallyrebalance your 401(k) portfolio to your preset targets, so you willnever need to make an active decision.THE INS AND OUTS OF INCOME INVESTING
In Graham’s day, bond investors faced two basic choices: Taxable or
tax-free? Short-term or long-term? Today there is a third: Bonds orbond funds?
Taxable or tax-free? Unless you’re in the lowest tax bracket,
6you
should buy only tax-free (municipal) bonds outside your retirementaccounts. Otherwise too much of your bond income will end up in thehands of the IRS. The only place to own taxable bonds is inside your401(k) or another sheltered account, where you will owe no currenttax on their income—and where municipal bonds have no place, since
their tax advantage goes to waste.
7
Short-term or long-term? Bonds and interest rates teeter on
opposite ends of a seesaw: If interest rates rise, bond prices fall—
although a short-term bond falls far less than a long-term bond. On theother hand, if interest rates fall, bond prices rise—and a long-termbond will outperform shorter ones.
8You can split the difference simply106 Commentary on Chapter 4
6For the 2003 tax year, the bottom Federal tax bracket is for single people
earning less than $28,400 or married people (filing jointly) earning less than
$47 ,450.
7Two good online calculators that will help you compare the after-tax in-
come of municipal and taxable bonds can be found at www.investinginbonds.com/cgi-bin/calculator.pl and www.lebenthal.com/index_infocenter.html. To
decide if a “muni” is right for you, find the “taxable equivalent yield” gener-ated by these calculators, then compare that number to the yield currently
available on Treasury bonds (http://money.cnn.com/markets/bondcenter/ or
www.bloomberg.com/markets/C13.html). If the yield on Treasury bonds ishigher than the taxable equivalent yield, munis are not for you. In any case,
be warned that municipal bonds and funds produce lower income, and
more price fluctuation, than most taxable bonds. Also, the alternative mini-mum tax, which now hits many middle-income Americans, can negate the
advantages of municipal bonds.
8For an excellent introduction to bond investing, see http://flagship.van
guard.com/web/planret/AdvicePTIBInvestmentsInvestingInBonds.html#Inter
estRates. For an even simpler explanation of bonds, see http://money.cnn.com/pf/101/lessons/7/. A “laddered” portfolio, holding bonds across a rangeof maturities, is another way of hedging interest-rate risk.by buying intermediate-term bonds maturing in five to 10 years—which
do not soar when their side of the seesaw rises, but do not slam intothe ground either. For most investors, intermediate bonds are the sim-plest choice, since they enable you to get out of the game of guessingwhat interest rates will do.
Bonds or bond funds? Since bonds are generally sold in $10,000
lots and you need a bare minimum of 10 bonds to diversify away therisk that any one of them might go bust, buying individual bonds
makes no sense unless you have at least $100,000 to invest. (Theonly exception is bonds issued by the U.S. Treasury, since they’re pro-
tected against default by the full force of the American government.)
Bond funds offer cheap and easy diversification, along with the
convenience of monthly income, which you can reinvest right back into
the fund at current rates without paying a commission. For mostinvestors, bond funds beat individual bonds hands down (the mainexceptions are Treasury securities and some municipal bonds). Major
firms like Vanguard, Fidelity, Schwab, and T. Rowe Price offer a broad
menu of bond funds at low cost.
9
The choices for bond investors have proliferated like rabbits, so
let’s update Graham’s list of what’s available. As of 2003, interestrates have fallen so low that investors are starved for yield, but thereare ways of amplifying your interest income without taking on exces-
sive risk.
10Figure 4-1 summarizes the pros and cons.
Now let’s look at a few types of bond investments that can fill spe-
cial needs.
CASH IS NOT TRASH
How can you wring more income out of your cash? The intelligent
investor should consider moving out of bank certificates of deposit or
money-market accounts—which have offered meager returns lately—into some of these cash alternatives:
Treasury securities, as obligations of the U.S. government, carryCommentary on Chapter 4 107
9For more information, see www.vanguard.com, www.fidelity.com, www.
schwab.com, and www.troweprice.com.
10For an accessible online summary of bond investing, see www.aaii.com/
promo/20021118/bonds.shtml.108 Commentary on Chapter 4
FIGURE 4-1 The Wide World of Bonds
Sources: Bankrate.com, Bloomberg, Lehman Brothers, Merrill Lynch, Morningstar,
www.savingsbonds.gov
Notes: (D): purchased directly. (F): purchased through a mutual fund.
“Ease of sale before maturity” indicates how readily you can sell at a fairprice before maturity date; mutual funds typically offer better ease of sale
than individual bonds. Money-market funds are Federally insured up to
$100,000 if purchased at an FDIC-member bank, but otherwise carry onlyan implicit pledge not to lose value. Federal income tax on savings bonds
is deferred until redemption or maturity. Municipal bonds are generally
exempt from state income tax only in the state where they were issued.Minimum Risk if in t
Type Maturity purchase Risk of default rates rise
Treasury bills Less than one year $1,000 (D) Extremely low Very low
Treasury notes Between one and $1,000 (D) Extremely low Moderate
10 years
Treasury bonds More than 10 yrs $1,000 (D) Extremely low HighSavings bonds Up to 30 years $25 (D) Extremely low Very low
Certificates of deposit One month to 5 yrs Usually $500 Very low; insured up to Low
$100,000
Money-market funds 397 days or less Usually $2,500 Very low Low
Mortgage debt One to 30 yrs $2,000–3,000 (F) Generally moderate Moderate 
but can be high high
Municipal bonds One to 30 yrs or more $5,000 (D); Generally moderate Moderate 
$2,000–$3,000 (F) but can be high high
Preferred stock Indefinite None High High
High-yield (“junk”) bonds Seven to 20 yrs $2,000–$3,000 (F) High Moderate
Emerging-markets debt Up to 30 yrs $2,000–$3,000 (F) High ModerateCommentary on Chapter 4 109
virtually no credit risk—since, instead of defaulting on his debts, Uncle
Sam can just jack up taxes or print more money at will. Treasury bills
mature in four, 13, or 26 weeks. Because of their very short maturities,T-bills barely get dented when rising interest rates knock down the
prices of other income investments; longer-term Treasury debt, how-
ever, suffers severely when interest rates rise. The interest income onTreasury securities is generally free from state (but not Federal)
income tax. And, with $3.7 trillion in public hands, the market for Trea-
sury debt is immense, so you can readily find a buyer if you need yourmoney back before maturity. You can buy Treasury bills, short-termnotes, and long-term bonds directly from the government, with no bro-kerage fees, at www.publicdebt.treas.gov. (For more on inflation-protected TIPS, see the commentary on Chapter 2.)
Savings bonds, unlike Treasuries, are not marketable; you cannotExempt from
Ease of sale most state Exempt from
Risk if interest before income Federal Yield
rates rise maturity taxes? income tax? Benchmark 12/31/2002
Very low High Y N 90-day 1.2
Moderate High Y N 5-year 2.7
10 year 3.8
High High Y N 30-year 4.8
Very low Low Y N EE bond Series bought after 4.2
May 1995
Low Low N N 1-year nat’l. avg. 1.5
Low High N N Taxable money market avg. 0.8
Moderate to Moderate N N Lehman Bros. MBS Index 4.6
high to low
Moderate to Moderate N Y National Long-Term Mutual 4.3
high to low Fund avg.
High Moderate N N None Highly variable
to low 
Moderate Low N N Merrill Lynch High Yield 11.9
Index
Moderate Low N N Emerg. Mkts Bond fund avg. 8.8sell them to another investor, and you’ll forfeit three months of interest
if you redeem them in less than five years. Thus they are suitablemainly as “set-aside money” to meet a future spending need—a gift fora religious ceremony that’s years away, or a jump start on putting yournewborn through Harvard. They come in denominations as low as
$25, making them ideal as gifts to grandchildren. For investors whocan confidently leave some cash untouched for years to come, infla-
tion-protected “I-bonds” recently offered an attractive yield of around
4%. To learn more, see www.savingsbonds.gov.
MOVING BEYOND UNCLE SAM
Mortgage securities. Pooled together from thousands of mort-
gages around the United States, these bonds are issued by agencies
like the Federal National Mortgage Association (“Fannie Mae”) or theGovernment National Mortgage Association (“Ginnie Mae”). However,
they are not backed by the U.S. Treasury, so they sell at higher yields toreflect their greater risk. Mortgage bonds generally underperform when
interest rates fall and bomb when rates rise. (Over the long run, those
swings tend to even out and the higher average yields pay off.) Good
mortgage-bond funds are available from Vanguard, Fidelity, and Pimco.But if a broker ever tries to sell you an individual mortgage bond or
“CMO, ” tell him you are late for an appointment with your proctologist.
Annuities. These insurance-like investments enable you to defer cur-
rent taxes and capture a stream of income after you retire. Fixed annuitiesoffer a set rate of return; variable ones provide a fluctuating return. But
what the defensive investor really needs to defend against here are thehard-selling insurance agents, stockbrokers, and financial planners who
peddle annuities at rapaciously high costs. In most cases, the high
expenses of owning an annuity—including “surrender charges” that gnawaway at your early withdrawals—will overwhelm its advantages. The few
good annuities are bought, not sold; if an annuity produces fat commis-
sions for the seller, chances are it will produce meager results for thebuyer. Consider only those you can buy directly from providers with rock-
bottom costs like Ameritas, TIAA-CREF, and Vanguard.
11110 Commentary on Chapter 4
11In general, variable annuities are not attractive for investors under the age
of 50 who expect to be in a high tax bracket during retirement or who havePreferred stock. Preferred shares are a worst-of-both-worlds
investment. They are less secure than bonds, since they have only a
secondary claim on a company’s assets if it goes bankrupt. And theyoffer less profit potential than common stocks do, since companiestypically “call” (or forcibly buy back) their preferred shares when inter-
est rates drop or their credit rating improves. Unlike the interest pay-ments on most of its bonds, an issuing company cannot deduct
preferred dividend payments from its corporate tax bill. Ask yourself: If
this company is healthy enough to deserve my investment, why is itpaying a fat dividend on its preferred stock instead of issuing bonds
and getting a tax break? The likely answer is that the company is nothealthy, the market for its bonds is glutted, and you should approachits preferred shares as you would approach an unrefrigerated deadfish.
Common stock. A visit to the stock screener at http://screen.
yahoo.com/stocks.html in early 2003 showed that 115 of the stocks inthe Standard & Poor’s 500 index had dividend yields of 3.0% or
greater. No intelligent investor, no matter how starved for yield, wouldever buy a stock for its dividend income alone; the company and its
businesses must be solid, and its stock price must be reasonable.
But, thanks to the bear market that began in 2000, some leadingstocks are now outyielding Treasury bonds. So even the most defen-
sive investor should realize that selectively adding stocks to an all-
bond or mostly-bond portfolio can increase its income yield—and raise
its potential return.
12Commentary on Chapter 4 111
not already contributed the maximum to their existing 401(k) or IRA
accounts. Fixed annuities (with the notable exception of those from TIAA-CREF) can change their “guaranteed” rates and smack you with nasty sur-
render fees. For thorough and objective analysis of annuities, see two
superb articles by Walter Updegrave: “Income for Life, ” Money, July, 2002,
pp. 89–96, and “Annuity Buyer’s Guide, ” Money, November, 2002, pp.
104–110.
12For more on the role of dividends in a portfolio, see Chapter 19.CHAPTER 5
The Defensive Investor and Common Stocks
Investment Merits of Common Stocks
In our first edition (1949) we found it necessary at this point 
to insert a long exposition of the case for including a substantial
common-stock component in all investment portfolios.* Commonstocks were generally viewed as highly speculative and thereforeunsafe; they had declined fairly substantially from the high levels
of 1946, but instead of attracting investors to them because of their
reasonable prices, this fall had had the opposite effect of undermin-ing confidence in equity securities. We have commented on the
converse situation that has developed in the ensuing 20 years,
whereby the big advance in stock prices made them appear safeand profitable investments at record high levels which might actu-
ally carry with them a considerable degree of risk.†
The argument we made for common stocks in 1949 turned on
112* At the beginning of 1949, the average annual return produced by stocks
over the previous 20 years was 3.1%, versus 3.9% for long-term Treasury
bonds—meaning that $10,000 invested in stocks would have grown to
$18,415 over that period, while the same amount in bonds would haveturned into $21,494. Naturally enough, 1949 turned out to be a fabulous
time to buy stocks: Over the next decade, the Standard & Poor’s 500-stock
index gained an average of 20.1% per year, one of the best long-termreturns in the history of the U.S. stock market.† Graham’s earlier comments on this subject appear on pp. 19–20. Justimagine what he would have thought about the stock market of the late1990s, in which each new record-setting high was considered further“proof” that stocks were the riskless way to wealth!two main points. The first was that they had offered a considerable
degree of protection against the erosion of the investor’s dollar
caused by inflation, whereas bonds offered no protection at all. The
second advantage of common stocks lay in their higher averagereturn to investors over the years. This was produced both by anaverage dividend income exceeding the yield on good bonds andby an underlying tendency for market value to increase over theyears in consequence of the reinvestment of undistributed profits.
While these two advantages have been of major importance—
and have given common stocks a far better record than bonds over the long-term past—we have consistently warned that these
benefits could be lost by the stock buyer if he pays too high a price
for his shares. This was clearly the case in 1929, and it took 25 yearsfor the market level to climb back to the ledge from which it had abysmally fallen in 1929–1932.* Since 1957 common stockshave once again, through their high prices, lost their traditionaladvantage in dividend yield over bond interest rates.† It remains toThe Defensive Investor and Common Stocks 113
* The Dow Jones Industrial Average closed at a then-record high of 381.17
on September 3, 1929. It did not close above that level until November 23,
1954—more than a quarter of a century later—when it hit 382.74. (When you
say you intend to own stocks “for the long run, ” do you realize just how longthe long run can be—or that many investors who bought in 1929 were no
longer even alive by 1954?) However, for patient investors who reinvested
their income, stock returns were positive over this otherwise dismal period,simply because dividend yields averaged more than 5.6% per year. Accord-
ing to professors Elroy Dimson, Paul Marsh, and Mike Staunton of London
Business School, if you had invested $1 in U.S. stocks in 1900 and spentall your dividends, your stock portfolio would have grown to $198 by 2000.But if you had reinvested all your dividends, your stock portfolio would have
been worth $16,797! Far from being an afterthought, dividends are the
greatest force in stock investing.† Why do the “high prices” of stocks affect their dividend yields? A stock’s
yield is the ratio of its cash dividend to the price of one share of common
stock. If a company pays a $2 annual dividend when its stock price is $100per share, its yield is 2%. But if the stock price doubles while the dividendstays constant, the dividend yield will drop to 1%. In 1959, when the trendGraham spotted in 1957 became noticeable to everyone, most Wall Streetbe seen whether the inflation factor and the economic-growth fac-
tor will make up in the future for this significantly adverse devel-
opment.
It should be evident to the reader that we have no enthusiasm
for common stocks in general at the 900 DJIA level of late 1971. For
reasons already given* we feel that the defensive investor cannotafford to be without an appreciable proportion of common stocksin his portfolio, even if he must regard them as the lesser of two
evils—the greater being the risks attached to an all-bond holding.
Rules for the Common-Stock Component
The selection of common stocks for the portfolio of the defensive
investor should be a relatively simple matter. Here we would sug-gest four rules to be followed:
1. There should be adequate though not excessive diversifica-
tion. This might mean a minimum of ten different issues and a
maximum of about thirty.†
2. Each company selected should be large, prominent, and con-
servatively financed. Indefinite as these adjectives must be, theirgeneral sense is clear. Observations on this point are added at theend of the chapter.
3. Each company should have a long record of continuous divi-
dend payments. (All the issues in the Dow Jones Industrial Aver-114 The Intelligent Investor
pundits declared that it could not possibly last. Never before had stocks
yielded less than bonds; after all, since stocks are riskier than bonds, whywould anyone buy them at all unless they pay extra dividend income to com-
pensate for their greater risk? The experts argued that bonds would outyield
stocks for a few months at most, and then things would revert to “normal. ”More than four decades later, the relationship has never been normal again;
the yield on stocks has (so far) continuously stayed below the yield on
bonds.* See pp. 56–57 and 88–89.† For another view of diversification, see the sidebar in the commentary onChapter 14 (p. 368).age met this dividend requirement in 1971.) To be specific on this
point we would suggest the requirement of continuous dividend
payments beginning at least in 1950.*
4. The investor should impose some limit on the price he will
pay for an issue in relation to its average earnings over, say, the
past seven years. We suggest that this limit be set at 25 times suchaverage earnings, and not more than 20 times those of the lasttwelve-month period. But such a restriction would eliminatenearly all the strongest and most popular companies from the port-folio. In particular, it would ban virtually the entire category of“growth stocks,” which have for some years past been the favorites
of both speculators and institutional investors. We must give our
reasons for proposing so drastic an exclusion.
Growth Stocks and the Defensive Investor
The term “growth stock” is applied to one which has increased
its per-share earnings in the past at well above the rate for common
stocks generally and is expected to continue to do so in the future.
(Some authorities would say that a true growth stock should beexpected at least to double its per-share earnings in ten years—i.e.,
to increase them at a compounded annual rate of over 7.1%.)†
Obviously stocks of this kind are attractive to buy and to own, pro-vided the price paid is not excessive. The problem lies there, ofThe Defensive Investor and Common Stocks 115
* Today’s defensive investor should probably insist on at least 10 years of
continuous dividend payments (which would eliminate from consideration
only one member of the Dow Jones Industrial Average—Microsoft—and
would still leave at least 317 stocks to choose from among the S & P 500index). Even insisting on 20 years of uninterrupted dividend payments would
not be overly restrictive; according to Morgan Stanley, 255 companies in
the S & P 500 met that standard as of year-end 2002.† The “Rule of 72” is a handy mental tool. To estimate the length of time anamount of money takes to double, simply divide its assumed growth rateinto 72. At 6%, for instance, money will double in 12 years (72 divided by 6 = 12). At the 7 .1% rate cited by Graham, a growth stock will double itsearnings in just over 10 years (72/7 .1 = 10.1 years).course, since growth stocks have long sold at high prices in relation
to current earnings and at much higher multiples of their average
profits over a past period. This has introduced a speculative ele-
ment of considerable weight in the growth-stock picture and hasmade successful operations in this field a far from simple matter.
The leading growth issue has long been International Business
Machines, and it has brought phenomenal rewards to those whobought it years ago and held on to it tenaciously. But we have
already pointed out* that this “best of common stocks” actually
lost 50% of its market price in a six-months’ decline during 1961–62and nearly the same percentage in 1969–70. Other growth stocks
have been even more vulnerable to adverse developments; in some
cases not only has the price fallen back but the earnings as well,thus causing a double discomfiture to those who owned them. Agood second example for our purpose is Texas Instruments, whichin six years rose from 5 to 256, without paying a dividend, while itsearnings increased from 40 cents to $3.91 per share. (Note that the
price advanced five times as fast as the profits; this is characteristic
of popular common stocks.) But two years later the earnings haddropped off by nearly 50% and the price by four-fifths, to 49.†
The reader will understand from these instances why we regard
growth stocks as a whole as too uncertain and risky a vehicle forthe defensive investor. Of course, wonders can be accomplished
with the right individual selections, bought at the right levels, and
later sold after a huge rise and before the probable decline. But theaverage investor can no more expect to accomplish this than to find
money growing on trees. In contrast we think that the group of116 The Intelligent Investor
* Graham makes this point on p. 73.
† To show that Graham’s observations are perennially true, we can substi-
tute Microsoft for IBM and Cisco for Texas Instruments. Thirty years apart,
the results are uncannily similar: Microsoft’s stock dropped 55.7% from2000 through 2002, while Cisco’s stock—which had risen roughly 50-fold
over the previous six years—lost 76% of its value from 2000 through 2002.
As with Texas Instruments, the drop in Cisco’s stock price was sharper thanthe fall in its earnings, which dropped just 39.2% (comparing the three-yearaverage for 1997–1999 against 2000–2002). As always, the hotter theyare, the harder they fall.large companies that are relatively unpopular, and therefore
obtainable at reasonable earnings multipliers,* offers a sound if
unspectacular area of choice by the general public. We shall illus-
trate this idea in our chapter on portfolio selection.
Portfolio Changes
It is now standard practice to submit all security lists for peri-
odic inspection in order to see whether their quality can beimproved. This, of course, is a major part of the service providedfor clients by investment counselors. Nearly all brokerage housesare ready to make corresponding suggestions, without special fee,in return for the commission business involved. Some brokeragehouses maintain investment services on a fee basis.
Presumably our defensive investor should obtain—at least once
a year—the same kind of advice regarding changes in his portfolioas he sought when his funds were first committed. Since he willhave little expertness of his own on which to rely, it is essential that
he entrust himself only to firms of the highest reputation; other-
wise he may easily fall into incompetent or unscrupulous hands. Itis important, in any case, that at every such consultation he makeclear to his adviser that he wishes to adhere closely to the fourrules of common-stock selection given earlier in this chapter. Inci-dentally, if his list has been competently selected in the first
instance, there should be no need for frequent or numerous
changes.†The Defensive Investor and Common Stocks 117
* “Earnings multiplier” is a synonym for P/E or price/earnings ratios, which
measure how much investors are willing to pay for a stock compared to the
profitability of the underlying business. (See footnote † on p. 70 in Chapter 3.)
† Investors can now set up their own automated system to monitor the quality of their holdings by using interactive “portfolio trackers” at such web-sites as www.quicken.com, moneycentral.msn.com, finance.yahoo.com, andwww.morningstar.com. Graham would, however, warn against relying exclu-sively on such a system; you must use your own judgment to supplementthe software.Dollar-Cost Averaging
The New York Stock Exchange has put considerable effort into
popularizing its “monthly purchase plan,” under which an
investor devotes the same dollar amount each month to buyingone or more common stocks. This is an application of a special typeof “formula investment” known as dollar-cost averaging. During
the predominantly rising-market experience since 1949 the resultsfrom such a procedure were certain to be highly satisfactory, espe-
cially since they prevented the practitioner from concentrating his
buying at the wrong times.
In Lucile Tomlinson’s comprehensive study of formula invest-
ment plans,
1the author presented a calculation of the results of 
dollar-cost averaging in the group of stocks making up the Dow
Jones industrial index. Tests were made covering 23 ten-year pur-chase periods, the first ending in 1929, the last in 1952. Every testshowed a profit either at the close of the purchase period or withinfive years thereafter. The average indicated profit at the end of the
23 buying periods was 21.5%, exclusive of dividends received.
Needless to say, in some instances there was a substantial tempo-
rary depreciation at market value. Miss Tomlinson ends her discus-sion of this ultrasimple investment formula with the strikingsentence: “No one has yet discovered any other formula for invest-ing which can be used with so much confidence of ultimate suc-cess, regardless of what may happen to security prices, as DollarCost Averaging.”
It may be objected that dollar-cost averaging, while sound in
principle, is rather unrealistic in practice, because few people are so
situated that they can have available for common-stock investment
the same amount of money each year for, say, 20 years. It seems tome that this apparent objection has lost much of its force in recent
years. Common stocks are becoming generally accepted as a neces-
sary component of a sound savings-investment program. Thus,systematic and uniform purchases of common stocks may present
no more psychological and financial difficulties than similar con-tinuous payments for United States savings bonds and for lifeinsurance—to which they should be complementary. The monthlyamount may be small, but the results after 20 or more years can beimpressive and important to the saver.118 The Intelligent InvestorThe Investor’s Personal Situation
At the beginning of this chapter we referred briefly to the posi-
tion of the individual portfolio owner. Let us return to this matter,
in the light of our subsequent discussion of general policy. To whatextent should the type of securities selected by the investor varywith his circumstances? As concrete examples representing widely
different conditions, we shall take: (1) a widow left $200,000 withwhich to support herself and her children; (2) a successful doctor in
mid-career, with savings of $100,000 and yearly accretions of
$10,000; and (3) a young man earning $200 per week and saving$1,000 a year.*
For the widow, the problem of living on her income is a very dif-
ficult one. On the other hand the need for conservatism in herinvestments is paramount. A division of her fund about equally
between United States bonds and first-grade common stocks is a
compromise between these objectives and corresponds to our gen-eral prescription for the defensive investor. (The stock component
may be placed as high as 75% if the investor is psychologically pre-
pared for this decision, and if she can be almost certain she is notbuying at too high a level. Assuredly this is notthe case in early
1972.)
We do not preclude the possibility that the widow may qualify
as an enterprising investor, in which case her objectives and meth-
ods will be quite different. The one thing the widow must notdo is
to take speculative chances in order to “make some extra income.”
By this we mean trying for profits or high income without the nec-essary equipment to warrant full confidence in overall success. Itwould be far better for her to draw $2,000 per year out of her prin-cipal, in order to make both ends meet, than to risk half of it in
poorly grounded, and therefore speculative, ventures.
The prosperous doctor has none of the widow’s pressures and
compulsions, yet we believe that his choices are pretty much thesame. Is he willing to take a serious interest in the business of
investment? If he lacks the impulse or the flair, he will do best toThe Defensive Investor and Common Stocks 119
* To update Graham’s figures, take each dollar amount in this section and
multiply it by five.accept the easy role of the defensive investor. The division of his
portfolio should then be no different from that of the “typical”
widow, and there would be the same area of personal choice in fix-
ing the size of the stock component. The annual savings should beinvested in about the same proportions as the total fund.
The average doctor may be more likely than the average widow
to elect to become an enterprising investor, and he is perhaps morelikely to succeed in the undertaking. He has one important handi-
cap, however—the fact that he has less time available to give to his
investment education and to the administration of his funds. Infact, medical men have been notoriously unsuccessful in their secu-
rity dealings. The reason for this is that they usually have an ample
confidence in their own intelligence and a strong desire to make agood return on their money, without the realization that to do sosuccessfully requires both considerable attention to the matter andsomething of a professional approach to security values.
Finally, the young man who saves $1,000 a year—and expects to
do better gradually—finds himself with the same choices, thoughfor still different reasons. Some of his savings should go automati-cally into Series E bonds. The balance is so modest that it seems
hardly worthwhile for him to undergo a tough educational and
temperamental discipline in order to qualify as an aggressiveinvestor. Thus a simple resort to our standard program for the
defensive investor would be at once the easiest and the most logi-
cal policy.
Let us not ignore human nature at this point. Finance has a fasci-
nation for many bright young people with limited means. They
would like to be both intelligent and enterprising in the placement
of their savings, even though investment income is much less
important to them than their salaries. This attitude is all to the
good. There is a great advantage for the young capitalist to beginhis financial education and experience early. If he is going to oper-
ate as an aggressive investor he is certain to make some mistakes
and to take some losses. Youth can stand these disappointmentsand profit by them. We urge the beginner in security buying not towaste his efforts and his money in trying to beat the market. Lethim study security values and initially test out his judgment onprice versus value with the smallest possible sums.
Thus we return to the statement, made at the outset, that the120 The Intelligent Investorkind of securities to be purchased and the rate of return to be
sought depend not on the investor’s financial resources but on his
financial equipment in terms of knowledge, experience, and tem-
perament.
Note on the Concept of “Risk”
It is conventional to speak of good bonds as less risky than good
preferred stocks and of the latter as less risky than good commonstocks. From this was derived the popular prejudice against com-mon stocks because they are not “safe,” which was demonstratedin the Federal Reserve Board’s survey of 1948. We should like topoint out that the words “risk” and “safety” are applied to securi-ties in two different senses, with a resultant confusion in thought.
A bond is clearly proved unsafe when it defaults its interest or
principal payments. Similarly, if a preferred stock or even a com-mon stock is bought with the expectation that a given rate of divi-dend will be continued, then a reduction or passing of the
dividend means that it has proved unsafe. It is also true that an
investment contains a risk if there is a fair possibility that theholder may have to sell at a time when the price is well below cost.
Nevertheless, the idea of risk is often extended to apply to a pos-
sible decline in the price of a security, even though the decline maybe of a cyclical and temporary nature and even though the holder
is unlikely to be forced to sell at such times. These chances are pres-
ent in all securities, other than United States savings bonds, and toa greater extent in the general run of common stocks than in senior
issues as a class. But we believe that what is here involved is not a
true risk in the useful sense of the term. The man who holds amortgage on a building might have to take a substantial loss if he
were forced to sell it at an unfavorable time. That element is not
taken into account in judging the safety or risk of ordinary real-estate mortgages, the only criterion being the certainty of punctual
payments. In the same way the risk attached to an ordinary com-
mercial business is measured by the chance of its losing money, notby what would happen if the owner were forced to sell.
In Chapter 8 we shall set forth our conviction that the bona fide
investor does not lose money merely because the market price ofhis holdings declines; hence the fact that a decline may occur doesThe Defensive Investor and Common Stocks 121not mean that he is running a true risk of loss. If a group of well-
selected common-stock investments shows a satisfactory overall
return, as measured through a fair number of years, then this
group investment has proved to be “safe.” During that period itsmarket value is bound to fluctuate, and as likely as not it will sellfor a while under the buyer’s cost. If that fact makes the investment“risky,” it would then have to be called both risky and safe at thesame time. This confusion may be avoided if we apply the concept
of risk solely to a loss of value which either is realized through
actual sale, or is caused by a significant deterioration in thecompany’s position—or, more frequently perhaps, is the result of
the payment of an excessive price in relation to the intrinsic worth
of the security.
2
Many common stocks do involve risks of such deterioration. But
it is our thesis that a properly executed group investment in com-
mon stocks does not carry any substantial risk of this sort and that
therefore it should not be termed “risky” merely because of the ele-ment of price fluctuation. But such risk is present if there is dangerthat the price may prove to have been clearly too high by intrinsic-value standards—even if any subsequent severe market declinemay be recouped many years later.
Note on the Category of “Large, Prominent, 
and Conservatively Financed Corporations”
The quoted phrase in our caption was used earlier in the chapter
to describe the kind of common stocks to which defensive
investors should limit their purchases—provided also that theyhad paid continuous dividends for a considerable number of years.
A criterion based on adjectives is always ambiguous. Where is the
dividing line for size, for prominence, and for conservatism of
financial structure? On the last point we can suggest a specific stan-dard that, though arbitrary, is in line with accepted thinking. An
industrial company’s finances are not conservative unless the com-
mon stock (at book value) represents at least half of the total capi-talization, including all bank debt.
3For a railroad or public utility
the figure should be at least 30%.
The words “large” and “prominent” carry the notion of substan-
tial size combined with a leading position in the industry. Such122 The Intelligent Investorcompanies are often referred to as “primary”; all other common
stocks are then called “secondary,” except that growth stocks are
ordinarily placed in a separate class by those who buy them as
such. To supply an element of concreteness here, let us suggest thatto be “large” in present-day terms a company should have $50 mil-lion of assets or do $50 million of business.* Again to be “promi-nent” a company should rank among the first quarter or first thirdin size within its industry group.
It would be foolish, however, to insist upon such arbitrary crite-
ria. They are offered merely as guides to those who may ask forguidance. But any rule which the investor may set for himself and
which does no violence to the common-sense meanings of “large”
and “prominent” should be acceptable. By the very nature of thecase there must be a large group of companies that some will andothers will not include among those suitable for defensive invest-ment. There is no harm in such diversity of opinion and action. Infact, it has a salutary effect upon stock-market conditions, because
it permits a gradual differentiation or transition between the cate-
gories of primary and secondary stock issues.The Defensive Investor and Common Stocks 123
* In today’s markets, to be considered large, a company should have a total
stock value (or “market capitalization”) of at least $10 billion. According tothe online stock screener at http://screen.yahoo.com/stocks.html, that gaveyou roughly 300 stocks to choose from as of early 2003.COMMENTARY ON C HAPTER 5
Human felicity is produc’d not so much by great Pieces of good
Fortune that seldom happen, as by little Advantages that occur
every day.
—Benjamin Franklin
THE BEST DEFENSE IS A GOOD OFFENSE
After the stock-market bloodbath of the past few years, why would any
defensive investor put a dime into stocks?
First, remember Graham’s insistence that how defensive you should
be depends less on your tolerance for risk than on your willingness toput time and energy into your portfolio. And if you go about it the rightway, investing in stocks is just as easy as parking your money in bonds
and cash. (As we’ll see in Chapter 9, you can buy a stock-market index
fund with no more effort than it takes to get dressed in the morning.)
Amidst the bear market that began in 2000, it’s understandable if
you feel burned—and if, in turn, that feeling makes you determinednever to buy another stock again. As an old Turkish proverb says,“After you burn your mouth on hot milk, you blow on your yogurt. ”
Because the crash of 2000–2002 was so terrible, many investors
now view stocks as scaldingly risky; but, paradoxically, the very act ofcrashing has taken much of the risk out of the stock market. It was hot
milk before, but it is room-temperature yogurt now.
Viewed logically, the decision of whether to own stocks today has
nothing to do with how much money you might have lost by owningthem a few years ago. When stocks are priced reasonably enough togive you future growth, then you should own them, regardless of thelosses they may have cost you in the recent past. That’s all the moretrue when bond yields are low, reducing the future returns on income-producing investments.
124As we have seen in Chapter 3, stocks are (as of early 2003) only
mildly overpriced by historical standards. Meanwhile, at recent prices,
bonds offer such low yields that an investor who buys them for theirsupposed safety is like a smoker who thinks he can protect himselfagainst lung cancer by smoking low-tar cigarettes. No matter how
defensive an investor you are—in Graham’s sense of low maintenance,or in the contemporary sense of low risk—today’s values mean that you
must keep at least some of your money in stocks.
Fortunately, it’s never been easier for a defensive investor to buy
stocks. And a permanent autopilot portfolio, which effortlessly puts a
little bit of your money to work every month in predetermined invest-ments, can defend you against the need to dedicate a large part ofyour life to stock picking.
SHOULD YOU “BUY WHAT YOU KNOW”?
But first, let’s look at something the defensive investor must always
defend against: the belief that you can pick stocks without doing anyhomework. In the 1980s and early 1990s, one of the most popular
investing slogans was “buy what you know. ” Peter Lynch—who from
1977 through 1990 piloted Fidelity Magellan to the best track recordever compiled by a mutual fund—was the most charismatic preacher of
this gospel. Lynch argued that amateur investors have an advantage
that professional investors have forgotten how to use: “the power ofcommon knowledge. ” If you discover a great new restaurant, car,
toothpaste, or jeans—or if you notice that the parking lot at a nearby
business is always full or that people are still working at a company’sheadquarters long after Jay Leno goes off the air—then you have a per-
sonal insight into a stock that a professional analyst or portfolio man-
ager might never pick up on. As Lynch put it, “During a lifetime ofbuying cars or cameras, you develop a sense of what’s good and
what’s bad, what sells and what doesn’t . . . and the most important
part is, you know it before Wall Street knows it. ”
1
Lynch’s rule—“You can outperform the experts if you use your edge
by investing in companies or industries you already understand”—isn’tCommentary on Chapter 5 125
1Peter Lynch with John Rothchild, One Up on Wall Street (Penguin, 1989),
p. 23.totally implausible, and thousands of investors have profited from it
over the years. But Lynch’s rule can work only if you follow its corollaryas well: “Finding the promising company is only the first step. The nextstep is doing the research. ” To his credit, Lynch insists that no oneshould ever invest in a company, no matter how great its products or
how crowded its parking lot, without studying its financial statementsand estimating its business value.
Unfortunately, most stock buyers have ignored that part.Barbra Streisand, the day-trading diva, personified the way people
abuse Lynch’s teachings. In 1999 she burbled, “We go to Starbucksevery day, so I buy Starbucks stock. ” But the Funny Girl forgot that nomatter how much you love those tall skinny lattes, you still have to ana-lyze Starbucks’s financial statements and make sure the stock isn’teven more overpriced than the coffee. Countless stock buyers madethe same mistake by loading up on shares of Amazon.com becausethey loved the website or buying e*Trade stock because it was their
own online broker.
“Experts” gave the idea credence too. In an interview televised on
CNN in late 1999, portfolio manager Kevin Landis of the FirsthandFunds was asked plaintively, “How do you do it? Why can’t I do it,
Kevin?” (From 1995 through the end of 1999, the Firsthand Technol-ogy Value fund produced an astounding 58.2% average annualized
gain.) “Well, you cando it, ” Landis chirped. “All you really need to do is
focus on the things that you know, and stay close to an industry, and
talk to people who work in it every day. ”
2
The most painful perversion of Lynch’s rule occurred in corporate
retirement plans. If you’re supposed to “buy what you know, ” thenwhat could possibly be a better investment for your 401(k) than yourown company’s stock? After all, you work there; don’t you know more
about the company than an outsider ever could? Sadly, the employees126 Commentary on Chapter 5
2Kevin Landis interview on CNN In the Money, November 5, 1999, 11 A.M.
eastern standard time. If Landis’s own record is any indication, focusing on
“the things that you know” is not “all you really need to do” to pick stocks
successfully. From the end of 1999 through the end of 2002, Landis’s fund(full of technology companies that he claimed to know “firsthand” from hisbase in Silicon Valley) lost 73.2% of its value, an even worse pounding thanthe average technology fund suffered over that period.of Enron, Global Crossing, and WorldCom—many of whom put nearly
all their retirement assets in their own company’s stock, only to bewiped out—learned that insiders often possess only the illusion ofknowledge, not the real thing.
Psychologists led by Baruch Fischhoff of Carnegie Mellon Univer-
sity have documented a disturbing fact: becoming more familiar with a
subject does not significantly reduce people’s tendency to exaggerate
how much they actually know about it.
3That’s why “investing in what
you know” can be so dangerous; the more you know going in, the less
likely you are to probe a stock for weaknesses. This pernicious form ofoverconfidence is called “home bias, ” or the habit of sticking to what isalready familiar:
• Individual investors own three times more shares in their local
phone company than in all other phone companies combined.
• The typical mutual fund owns stocks whose headquarters are 115
miles closer to the fund’s main office than the average U.S. com-
pany is.
• 401(k) investors keep between 25% and 30% of their retirement
assets in the stock of their own company.
4
In short, familiarity breeds complacency. On the TV news, isn’t it
always the neighbor or the best friend or the parent of the criminal who
says in a shocked voice, “He was such a nice guy”? That’s becausewhenever we are too close to someone or something, we take our
beliefs for granted, instead of questioning them as we do when we con-
front something more remote. The more familiar a stock is, the morelikely it is to turn a defensive investor into a lazy one who thinks there’s
no need to do any homework. Don’t let that happen to you.Commentary on Chapter 5 127
3Sarah Lichtenstein and Baruch Fischhoff, “Do Those Who Know More
Also Know More about How Much They Know?” Organizational Behavior
and Human Performance, vol. 20, no. 2, December, 1977 , pp. 159–183.
4See Gur Huberman, “Familiarity Breeds Investment”; Joshua D. Coval and
Tobias J. Moskowitz, “The Geography of Investment”; and Gur Huberman
and Paul Sengmuller, “Company Stock in 401(k) Plans, ” all available athttp://papers.ssrn.com.CAN YOU ROLL YOUR OWN?
Fortunately, for a defensive investor who is willing to do the required
homework for assembling a stock portfolio, this is the Golden Age:Never before in financial history has owning stocks been so cheapand convenient.
5
Do it yourself. Through specialized online brokerages like www.
sharebuilder.com, www.foliofn.com, and www.buyandhold.com, youcan buy stocks automatically even if you have very little cash to spare.
These websites charge as little as $4 for each periodic purchase of
any of the thousands of U.S. stocks they make available. You caninvest every week or every month, reinvest the dividends, and even
trickle your money into stocks through electronic withdrawals from
your bank account or direct deposit from your paycheck. Sharebuildercharges more to sell than to buy—reminding you, like a little whackacross the nose with a rolled-up newspaper, that rapid selling is aninvesting no-no—while FolioFN offers an excellent tax-tracking tool.
Unlike traditional brokers or mutual funds that won’t let you in the door
for less than $2,000 or $3,000, these online firms have no minimumaccount balances and are tailor-made for beginning investors who wantto put fledgling portfolios on autopilot. To be sure, a transaction fee of 
$4 takes a monstrous 8% bite out of a $50 monthly investment—but if
that’s all the money you can spare, then these microinvesting sites arethe only game in town for building a diversified portfolio.
You can also buy individual stocks straight from the issuing compa-
nies. In 1994, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission loos-ened the handcuffs it had long ago clamped onto the direct sale of
stocks to the public. Hundreds of companies responded by creating
Internet-based programs allowing investors to buy shares withoutgoing through a broker. Some helpful online sources of information on
buying stocks directly include www.dripcentral.com, www.netstock
direct.com (an affiliate of Sharebuilder), and www.stockpower.com.128 Commentary on Chapter 5
5According to finance professor Charles Jones of Columbia Business
School, the cost of a small, one-way trade (either a buy or a sell) in a New
York Stock Exchange–listed stock dropped from about 1.25% in Graham’sday to about 0.25% in 2000. For institutions like mutual funds, those costsare actually higher. (See Charles M. Jones, “A Century of Stock Market Li-quidity and Trading Costs, ” at http://papers.ssrn.com.)You may often incur a variety of nuisance fees that can exceed $25
per year. Even so, direct-stock purchase programs are usually cheaperthan stockbrokers.
Be warned, however, that buying stocks in tiny increments for years
on end can set off big tax headaches. If you are not prepared to keep
a permanent and exhaustively detailed record of your purchases, donot buy in the first place. Finally, don’t invest in only one stock—or even
just a handful of different stocks. Unless you are not willing to spread
your bets, you shouldn’t bet at all. Graham’s guideline of owningbetween 10 and 30 stocks remains a good starting point for investors
who want to pick their own stocks, but you must make sure that youare not overexposed to one industry.
6(For more on how to pick the
individual stocks that will make up your portfolio, see pp. 114–115
and Chapters 11, 14, and 15.)
If, after you set up such an online autopilot portfolio, you find your-
self trading more than twice a year—or spending more than an hour or
two per month, total, on your investments—then something has gone
badly wrong. Do not let the ease and up-to-the-minute feel of the Inter-
net seduce you into becoming a speculator. A defensive investor
runs—and wins—the race by sitting still.
Get some help. A defensive investor can also own stocks through
a discount broker, a financial planner, or a full-service stockbroker. At adiscount brokerage, you’ll need to do most of the stock-picking workyourself; Graham’s guidelines will help you create a core portfolio
requiring minimal maintenance and offering maximal odds of a steady
return. On the other hand, if you cannot spare the time or summon theinterest to do it yourself, there’s no reason to feel any shame in hiring
someone to pick stocks or mutual funds for you. But there’s one
responsibility that you must never delegate. You, and no one but you,must investigate ( before you hand over your money) whether an
adviser is trustworthy and charges reasonable fees. (For more point-ers, see Chapter 10.)
Farm it out. Mutual funds are the ultimate way for a defensive
investor to capture the upside of stock ownership without the down-Commentary on Chapter 5 129
6To help determine whether the stocks you own are sufficiently diversified
across different industrial sectors, you can use the free “Instant X-Ray” func-
tion at www.morningstar.com or consult the sector information (GlobalIndustry Classification Standard) at www.standardandpoors.com.side of having to police your own portfolio. At relatively low cost, you
can buy a high degree of diversification and convenience—letting aprofessional pick and watch the stocks for you. In their finest form—index portfolios—mutual funds can require virtually no monitoring ormaintenance whatsoever. Index funds are a kind of Rip Van Winkle
investment that is highly unlikely to cause any suffering or surpriseseven if, like Washington Irving’s lazy farmer, you fall asleep for 20
years. They are a defensive investor’s dream come true. For more
detail, see Chapter 9.
FILLING IN THE POTHOLES
As the financial markets heave and crash their way up and down day
after day, the defensive investor can take control of the chaos. Your
very refusal to be active, your renunciation of any pretended ability topredict the future, can become your most powerful weapons. By put-
ting every investment decision on autopilot, you drop any self-delusionthat you know where stocks are headed, and you take away the
market’s power to upset you no matter how bizarrely it bounces.
As Graham notes, “dollar-cost averaging” enables you to put a fixed
amount of money into an investment at regular intervals. Every week,month, or calendar quarter, you buy more—whether the markets have
gone (or are about to go) up, down, or sideways. Any major mutual fund
company or brokerage firm can automatically and safely transfer themoney electronically for you, so you never have to write a check or feel
the conscious pang of payment. It’s all out of sight, out of mind.
The ideal way to dollar-cost average is into a portfolio of index
funds, which own every stock or bond worth having. That way, yourenounce not only the guessing game of where the market is going
but which sectors of the market—and which particular stocks or bondswithin them—will do the best.
Let’s say you can spare $500 a month. By owning and dollar-cost
averaging into just three index funds—$300 into one that holds thetotal U.S. stock market, $100 into one that holds foreign stocks, and
$100 into one that holds U.S. bonds—you can ensure that you own
almost every investment on the planet that’s worth owning.
7Every130 Commentary on Chapter 5
7For more on the rationale for keeping a portion of your portfolio in foreign
stocks, see pp. 186–187 .month, like clockwork, you buy more. If the market has dropped, your
preset amount goes further, buying you more shares than the monthbefore. If the market has gone up, then your money buys you fewershares. By putting your portfolio on permanent autopilot this way, youprevent yourself from either flinging money at the market just when it is
seems most alluring (and is actually most dangerous) or refusing tobuy more after a market crash has made investments truly cheaper
(but seemingly more “risky”).
According to Ibbotson Associates, the leading financial research
firm, if you had invested $12,000 in the Standard & Poor’s 500-stock
index at the beginning of September 1929, 10 years later you wouldhave had only $7 ,223 left. But if you had started with a paltry $100and simply invested another $100 every single month, then by August1939, your money would have grown to $15,571! That’s the power of
disciplined buying—even in the face of the Great Depression and theworst bear market of all time.
8
Figure 5-1 shows the magic of dollar-cost averaging in a more re-
cent bear market.
Best of all, once you build a permanent autopilot portfolio with
index funds as its heart and core, you’ll be able to answer every mar-
ket question with the most powerful response a defensive investorcould ever have: “I don’t know and I don’t care. ” If someone askswhether bonds will outperform stocks, just answer, “I don’t know and Idon’t care”—after all, you’re automatically buying both. Will health-carestocks make high-tech stocks look sick? “I don’t know and I don’t
care”—you’re a permanent owner of both. What’s the next Microsoft?
“I don’t know and I don’t care”—as soon as it’s big enough to own,
your index fund will have it, and you’ll go along for the ride. Will foreignstocks beat U.S. stocks next year? “I don’t know and I don’t care”—if
they do, you’ll capture that gain; if they don’t, you’ll get to buy more at
lower prices.
By enabling you to say “I don’t know and I don’t care, ” a permanent
autopilot portfolio liberates you from the feeling that you need to fore-cast what the financial markets are about to do—and the illusion thatCommentary on Chapter 5 131
8Source: spreadsheet data provided courtesy of Ibbotson Associates.
Although it was not possible for retail investors to buy the entire S & P 500
index until 1976, the example nevertheless proves the power of buying morewhen stock prices go down.anyone else can. The knowledge of how little you can know about the
future, coupled with the acceptance of your ignorance, is a defensive
investor’s most powerful weapon.132 Commentary on Chapter 5
FIGURE 5-1
Every Little Bit Helps
 $4,604.53 
 $3,100.00 
879.821469.25
01,0002,0003,0004,0005,0006,000
Dec-99
Feb-00
Apr-00
Jun-00
Aug-00
Oct-00
Dec-00
Feb-01
Apr-01
Jun-01
Aug-01
Oct-01
Dec-01
Feb-02
Apr-02
Jun-02
Aug-02
Oct-02
Dec-02
Cumulative value of $100 invested monthly in Vanguard 500 Index Fund 
Monthly closing price, Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index
From the end of 1999 through the end of 2002, the S & P 500-stock average fell
relentlessly. But if you had opened an index-fund account with a $3,000 mini-
mum investment and added $100 every month, your total outlay of $6,600
would have lost 30.2%—considerably less than the 41.3% plunge in the market.Better yet, your steady buying at lower prices would build the base for an explo-
sive recovery when the market rebounds.
Source: The Vanguard GroupCHAPTER 6
Portfolio Policy for the Enterprising
Investor: Negative Approach
The “aggressive” investor should start from the same base as the
defensive investor, namely, a division of his funds between high-
grade bonds and high-grade common stocks bought at reasonableprices.* He will be prepared to branch out into other kinds of secu-rity commitments, but in each case he will want a well-reasoned
justification for the departure. There is a difficulty in discussing
this topic in orderly fashion, because there is no single or ideal pat-tern for aggressive operations. The field of choice is wide; the selec-
tion should depend not only on the individual’s competence and
equipment but perhaps equally well upon his interests and prefer-ences.
The most useful generalizations for the enterprising investor are
of a negative sort. Let him leave high-grade preferred stocks to cor-porate buyers. Let him also avoid inferior types of bonds and pre-
ferred stocks unless they can be bought at bargain levels—which
means ordinarily at prices at least 30% under par for high-coupon
133* Here Graham has made a slip of the tongue. After insisting in Chapter 1
that the definition of an “enterprising” investor depends not on the amount
of risk you seek, but the amount of work you are willing to put in, Graham
falls back on the conventional notion that enterprising investors are more“aggressive. ” The rest of the chapter, however, makes clear that Grahamstands by his original definition. (The great British economist John MaynardKeynes appears to have been the first to use the term “enterprise” as a syn-onym for analytical investment.)issues, and much less for the lower coupons.* He will let someone
else buy foreign-government bond issues, even though the yield
may be attractive. He will also be wary of all kinds of new issues,
including convertible bonds and preferreds that seem quite tempt-ing and common stocks with excellent earnings confined to therecent past.
For standard bond investments the aggressive investor would
do well to follow the pattern suggested to his defensive confrere,
and make his choice between high-grade taxable issues, which can
now be selected to yield about 7
1⁄4%, and good-quality tax-free
bonds, which yield up to 5.30% on longer maturities.†
Second-Grade Bonds and Preferred Stocks
Since in late-1971 it is possible to find first-rate corporate bonds
to yield 71⁄4%, and even more, it would not make much sense to buy
second-grade issues merely for the higher return they offer. In fact
corporations with relatively poor credit standing have found it vir-
tually impossible to sell “straight bonds”—i.e., nonconvertibles—to the public in the past two years. Hence their debt financing has
been done by the sale of convertible bonds (or bonds with warrants
attached), which place them in a separate category. It follows thatvirtually all the nonconvertible bonds of inferior rating represent
older issues which are selling at a large discount. Thus they offer
the possibility of a substantial gain in principal value under favor-able future conditions—which would mean here a combination ofan improved credit rating for the company and lower generalinterest rates.134 The Intelligent Investor
* “High-coupon issues” are corporate bonds paying above-average interest
rates (in today’s markets, at least 8%) or preferred stocks paying large divi-
dend yields (10% or more). If a company must pay high rates of interest in
order to borrow money, that is a fundamental signal that it is risky. For moreon high-yield or “junk” bonds, see pp. 145–147 .† As of early 2003, the equivalent yields are roughly 5.1% on high-gradecorporate bonds and 4.7% on 20-year tax-free municipal bonds. To up-date these yields, see www.bondsonline.com/asp/news/composites/html orwww.bloomberg.com/markets/rates.html and www.bloomberg.com/markets/psamuni.html.But even in the matter of price discounts and resultant chance of
principal gain, the second-grade bonds are in competition with bet-
ter issues. Some of the well-entrenched obligations with “old-
style” coupon rates (21⁄2% to 4%) sold at about 50 cents on the dollar
in 1970. Examples: American Telephone & Telegraph 25⁄8s, due 1986
sold at 51; Atchison Topeka & Santa Fe RR 4s, due 1995, sold at 51;
McGraw-Hill 37⁄8s, due 1992, sold at 501⁄2.
Hence under conditions of late-1971 the enterprising investors
can probably get from good-grade bonds selling at a large discount
all that he should reasonably desire in the form of both income andchance of appreciation.
Throughout this book we refer to the possibility that any well-
defined and protracted market situation of the past may return inthe future. Hence we should consider what policy the aggressiveinvestor might have to choose in the bond field if prices and yieldsof high-grade issues should return to former normals. For this rea-son we shall reprint here our observations on that point made in
the 1965 edition, when high-grade bonds yielded only 4
1⁄2%.
Something should be said now about investing in second-grade
issues, which can readily be found to yield any specified return up
to 8% or more. The main difference between first- and second-grade bonds is usually found in the number of times the interest
charges have been covered by earnings. Example: In early 1964
Chicago, Milwaukee, St. Paul and Pacific 5% income debenturebonds, at 68, yielded 7.35%. But the total interest charges of the
road, before income taxes, were earned only 1.5 times in 1963,
against our requirement of 5 times for a well-protected railroadissue.
1
Many investors buy securities of this kind because they “need
income” and cannot get along with the meager return offered by
top-grade issues. Experience clearly shows that it is unwise to buy
a bond or a preferred which lacks adequate safety merely becausethe yield is attractive.* (Here the word “merely” implies that the
issue is not selling at a large discount and thus does not offer an
opportunity for a substantial gain in principal value.) Where suchsecurities are bought at full prices—that is, not many points underPortfolio Policy for the Enterprising Investor: Negative Approach 135
* For a recent example that painfully reinforces Graham’s point, see p. 146
below.100*—the chances are very great that at some future time the
holder will see much lower quotations. For when bad business
comes, or just a bad market, issues of this kind prove highly sus-
ceptible to severe sinking spells; often interest or dividends are suspended or at least endangered, and frequently there is a pro-nounced price weakness even though the operating results are notat all bad.
As a specific illustration of this characteristic of second-quality
senior issues, let us summarize the price behavior of a group of tenrailroad income bonds in 1946–47. These comprise all of those which
sold at 96 or more in 1946, their high prices averaging 102
1⁄2. By the
following year the group had registered low prices averaging only
68, a loss of one-third of the market value in a very short time.
Peculiarly enough, the railroads of the country were showingmuch better earnings in 1947 than in 1946; hence the drastic price
decline ran counter to the business picture and was a reflection ofthe selloff in the general market. But it should be pointed out that
the shrinkage in these income bonds was proportionately larger
than that in the common stocks in the Dow Jones industrial list
(about 23%). Obviously the purchaser of these bonds at a cost
above 100 could not have expected to participate to any extent in a
further rise in the securities market. The only attractive feature was
the income yield, averaging about 4.25% (against 2.50% for first-grade bonds, an advantage of 1.75% in annual income). Yet the
sequel showed all too soon and too plainly that for the minor
advantage in annual income the buyer of these second-gradebonds was risking the loss of a substantial part of his principal.
The above example permits us to pay our respects to the popu-
lar fallacy that goes under the sobriquet of a “businessman’sinvestment.” That involves the purchase of a security showing a
larger yield than is obtainable on a high-grade issue and carrying 
a correspondingly greater risk. It is bad business to accept an136 The Intelligent Investor
* Bond prices are quoted in percentages of “par value, ” or 100. A bond
priced at “85” is selling at 85% of its principal value; a bond originallyoffered for $10,000, but now selling at 85, will cost $8,500. When bondssell below 100, they are called “discount” bonds; above 100, they become“premium” bonds.acknowledged possibility of a loss of principal in exchange for a
mere 1 or 2% of additional yearly income. If you are willing to
assume some risk you should be certain that you can realize a
really substantial gain in principal value if things go well. Hence asecond-grade 5.5 or 6% bond selling at par is almost always a bad
purchase. The same issue at 70 might make more sense—and if youare patient you will probably be able to buy it at that level.
Second-grade bonds and preferred stocks possess two contra-
dictory attributes which the intelligent investor must bear clearlyin mind. Nearly all suffer severe sinking spells in bad markets. Onthe other hand, a large proportion recover their position when
favorable conditions return, and these ultimately “work out all
right.” This is true even of (cumulative) preferred stocks that fail topay dividends for many years. There were a number of such issuesin the early 1940s, as a consequence of the long depression of the1930s. During the postwar boom period of 1945–1947 many ofthese large accumulations were paid off either in cash or in new
securities, and the principal was often discharged as well. As a
result, large profits were made by people who, a few years previ-ously, had bought these issues when they were friendless and sold
at low prices.
2
It may well be true that, in an overall accounting, the higher
yields obtainable on second-grade senior issues will prove to haveoffset those principal losses that were irrecoverable. In other
words, an investor who bought all such issues at their offeringprices might conceivably fare as well, in the long run, as one who
limited himself to first-quality securities; or even somewhat better.
3
But for practical purposes the question is largely irrelevant.
Regardless of the outcome, the buyer of second-grade issues at full
prices will be worried and discommoded when their price declines
precipitately. Furthermore, he cannot buy enough issues to assurean “average” result, nor is he in a position to set aside a portion of
his larger income to offset or “amortize” those principal losses
which prove to be permanent. Finally, it is mere common sense toabstain from buying securities at around 100 if long experienceindicates that they can probably be bought at 70 or less in the nextweak market.Portfolio Policy for the Enterprising Investor: Negative Approach 137Foreign Government Bonds
All investors with even small experience know that foreign
bonds, as a whole, have had a bad investment history since 1914.
This was inevitable in the light of two world wars and an interven-ing world depression of unexampled depth. Yet every few yearsmarket conditions are sufficiently favorable to permit the sale of
some new foreign issues at a price of about par. This phenomenontells us a good deal about the working of the average investor’s
mind—and not only in the field of bonds.
We have no concrete reason to be concerned about the future his-
tory of well-regarded foreign bonds such as those of Australia or
Norway. But we do know that, if and when trouble should come,the owner of foreign obligations has no legal or other means ofenforcing his claim. Those who bought Republic of Cuba 4
1⁄2s as
high as 117 in 1953 saw them default their interest and then sell aslow as 20 cents on the dollar in 1963. The New York StockExchange bond list in that year also included Belgian Congo 5
1⁄4s at
36, Greek 7s at 30, and various issues of Poland as low as 7. Howmany readers have any idea of the repeated vicissitudes of the 8%bonds of Czechoslovakia, since they were first offered in this coun-
try in 1922 at 96
1⁄2? They advanced to 112 in 1928, declined to 673⁄4in
1932, recovered to 106 in 1936, collapsed to 6 in 1939, recovered
(unbelievably) to 117 in 1946, fell promptly to 35 in 1948, and soldas low as 8 in 1970!
Years ago an argument of sorts was made for the purchase of
foreign bonds here on the grounds that a rich creditor nation suchas ours was under moral obligation to lend abroad. Time, which
brings so many revenges, now finds us dealing with an intractable
balance-of-payments problem of our own, part of which is ascrib-able to the large-scale purchase of foreign bonds by American
investors seeking a small advantage in yield. For many years past
we have questioned the inherent attractiveness of such invest-ments from the standpoint of the buyer; perhaps we should add
now that the latter would benefit both his country and himself if he
declined these opportunities.138 The Intelligent InvestorNew Issues Generally
It might seem ill-advised to attempt any broad statements about
new issues as a class, since they cover the widest possible range of
quality and attractiveness. Certainly there will be exceptions to anysuggested rule. Our one recommendation is that all investorsshould be wary of new issues—which means, simply, that these
should be subjected to careful examination and unusually severe
tests before they are purchased.
There are two reasons for this double caveat. The first is that
new issues have special salesmanship behind them, which callstherefore for a special degree of sales resistance.* The second is thatmost new issues are sold under “favorable market conditions”—which means favorable for the seller and consequently less favor-able for the buyer.†
The effect of these considerations becomes steadily more impor-
tant as we go down the scale from the highest-quality bondsthrough second-grade senior issues to common-stock flotations at
the bottom. A tremendous amount of financing, consisting of the
repayment of existing bonds at call price and their replacement bynew issues with lower coupons, was done in the past. Most of this
was in the category of high-grade bonds and preferred stocks. The
buyers were largely financial institutions, amply qualified to pro-tect their interests. Hence these offerings were carefully priced toPortfolio Policy for the Enterprising Investor: Negative Approach 139
* New issues of common stock—initial public offerings or IPOs—normally are
sold with an “underwriting discount” (a built-in commission) of 7%. By con-
trast, the buyer’s commission on older shares of common stock typically
ranges below 4%. Whenever Wall Street makes roughly twice as much forselling something new as it does for selling something old, the new will get
the harder sell.
† Recently, finance professors Owen Lamont of the University of Chicagoand Paul Schultz of the University of Notre Dame have shown that corpora-
tions choose to offer new shares to the public when the stock market is near
a peak. For technical discussion of these issues, see Lamont’s “EvaluatingValue Weighting: Corporate Events and Market Timing” and Schultz’s“Pseudo Market Timing and the Long-Run Performance of IPOs” at http://papers.ssrn.com.meet the going rate for comparable issues, and high-powered
salesmanship had little effect on the outcome. As interest rates fell
lower and lower the buyers finally came to pay too high a price for
these issues, and many of them later declined appreciably in themarket. This is one aspect of the general tendency to sell new secu-rities of all types when conditions are most favorable to the issuer;but in the case of first-quality issues the ill effects to the purchaserare likely to be unpleasant rather than serious.
The situation proves somewhat different when we study the
lower-grade bonds and preferred stocks sold during the 1945–46and 1960–61 periods. Here the effect of the selling effort is more
apparent, because most of these issues were probably placed with
individual and inexpert investors. It was characteristic of theseofferings that they did not make an adequate showing whenjudged by the performance of the companies over a sufficient num-ber of years. They did look safe enough, for the most part, if itcould be assumed that the recent earnings would continue without
a serious setback. The investment bankers who brought out these
issues presumably accepted this assumption, and their salesmenhad little difficulty in persuading themselves and their customers
to a like effect. Nevertheless it was an unsound approach to invest-
ment, and one likely to prove costly.
Bull-market periods are usually characterized by the transfor-
mation of a large number of privately owned businesses into com-panies with quoted shares. This was the case in 1945–46 and againbeginning in 1960. The process then reached extraordinary propor-
tions until brought to a catastrophic close in May 1962. After theusual “swearing-off” period of several years the whole tragicom-
edy was repeated, step by step, in 1967–1969.*140 The Intelligent Investor
* In the two years from June 1960, through May 1962, more than 850 com-
panies sold their stock to the public for the first time—an average of more than
one per day. In late 1967 the IPO market heated up again; in 1969 an aston-
ishing 781 new stocks were born. That oversupply helped create the bearmarkets of 1969 and 1973–1974. In 1974 the IPO market was so dead thatonly nine new stocks were created all year; 1975 saw only 14 stocks born.That undersupply, in turn, helped feed the bull market of the 1980s, whenroughly 4,000 new stocks flooded the market—helping to trigger the over-New Common-Stock Offerings
The following paragraphs are reproduced unchanged from the
1959 edition, with comment added:
Common-stock financing takes two different forms. In the case
of companies already listed, additional shares are offered pro rata
to the existing stockholders. The subscription price is set below 
the current market, and the “rights” to subscribe have an initial
money value.* The sale of the new shares is almost always under-written by one or more investment banking houses, but it is the
general hope and expectation that all the new shares will be taken
by the exercise of the subscription rights. Thus the sale of addi-tional common stock of listed companies does not ordinarily callfor active selling effort on the part of distributing firms.
The second type is the placement with the public of common
stock of what were formerly privately owned enterprises. Most ofthis stock is sold for the account of the controlling interests to
enable them to cash in on a favorable market and to diversify theirPortfolio Policy for the Enterprising Investor: Negative Approach 141
enthusiasm that led to the 1987 crash. Then the cycle swung the other way
again as IPOs dried up in 1988–1990. That shortage contributed to the bull
market of the 1990s—and, right on cue, Wall Street got back into the busi-
ness of creating new stocks, cranking out nearly 5,000 IPOs. Then, after thebubble burst in 2000, only 88 IPOs were issued in 2001—the lowest annualtotal since 1979. In every case, the public has gotten burned on IPOs, has
stayed away for at least two years, but has always returned for another scald-
ing. For as long as stock markets have existed, investors have gone throughthis manic-depressive cycle. In America’s first great IPO boom, back in 1825,
a man was said to have been squeezed to death in the stampede of specu-
lators trying to buy shares in the new Bank of Southwark; the wealthiest buy-ers hired thugs to punch their way to the front of the line. Sure enough, by
1829, stocks had lost roughly 25% of their value.
* Here Graham is describing rights offerings, in which investors who alreadyown a stock are asked to pony up even more money to maintain the sameproportional interest in the company. This form of financing, still widespreadin Europe, has become rare in the United States, except among closed-endfunds.own finances. (When new money is raised for the business it
comes often via the sale of preferred stock, as previously noted.)This activity follows a well-defined pattern, which by the nature of
the security markets must bring many losses and disappointments
to the public. The dangers arise both from the character of thebusinesses that are thus financed and from the market conditions
that make the financing possible.
In the early part of the century a large proportion of our leading
companies were introduced to public trading. As time went on, thenumber of enterprises of first rank that remained closely held
steadily diminished; hence original common-stock flotations havetended to be concentrated more and more on relatively small con-cerns. By an unfortunate correlation, during the same period the
stock-buying public has been developing an ingrained preference
for the major companies and a similar prejudice against the minorones. This prejudice, like many others, tends to become weaker as
bull markets are built up; the large and quick profits shown by
common stocks as a whole are sufficient to dull the public’s criticalfaculty, just as they sharpen its acquisitive instinct. During these
periods, also, quite a number of privately owned concerns can be
found that are enjoying excellent results—although most of thesewould not present too impressive a record if the figures were car-
ried back, say, ten years or more.
When these factors are put together the following consequences
emerge: Somewhere in the middle of the bull market the first 
common-stock flotations make their appearance. These are priced
not unattractively, and some large profits are made by the buyers of
the early issues. As the market rise continues, this brand of financinggrows more frequent; the quality of the companies becomes steadily
poorer; the prices asked and obtained verge on the exorbitant. One
fairly dependable sign of the approaching end of a bull swing is thefact that new common stocks of small and nondescript companies
are offered at prices somewhat higher than the current level for
many medium-sized companies with a long market history. (Itshould be added that very little of this common-stock financing isordinarily done by banking houses of prime size and reputation.)*142 The Intelligent Investor
* In Graham’s day, the most prestigious investment banks generally steeredclear of the IPO business, which was regarded as an undignified exploita-The heedlessness of the public and the willingness of selling
organizations to sell whatever may be profitably sold can have
only one result—price collapse. In many cases the new issues lose
75% and more of their offering price. The situation is worsened by
the aforementioned fact that, at bottom, the public has a real aver-sion to the very kind of small issue that it bought so readily in its
careless moments. Many of these issues fall, proportionately, as
much below their true value as they formerly sold above it.
An elementary requirement for the intelligent investor is an abil-
ity to resist the blandishments of salesmen offering new common-stock issues during bull markets. Even if one or two can be foundthat can pass severe tests of quality and value, it is probably bad pol-icy to get mixed up in this sort of business. Of course the salesman
will point to many such issues which have had good-sized market
advances—including some that go up spectacularly the very daythey are sold. But all this is part of the speculative atmosphere. It is
easy money. For every dollar you make in this way you will be lucky
if you end up by losing only two.
Some of these issues may prove excellent buys—a few years
later, when nobody wants them and they can be had at a smallfraction of their true worth.
In the 1965 edition we continued our discussion of this subject
as follows:
While the broader aspects of the stock market’s behavior since
1949 have not lent themselves well to analysis based on long expe-rience, the development of new common-stock flotations pro-
ceeded exactly in accordance with ancient prescription. It is
doubtful whether we ever before had so many new issues offered,of such low quality, and with such extreme price collapses, as wePortfolio Policy for the Enterprising Investor: Negative Approach 143
tion of naïve investors. By the peak of the IPO boom in late 1999 and early2000, however, Wall Street’s biggest investment banks had jumped in withboth feet. Venerable firms cast off their traditional prudence and behavedlike drunken mud wrestlers, scrambling to foist ludicrously overvaluedstocks on a desperately eager public. Graham’s description of how the IPOprocess works is a classic that should be required reading in investment-banking ethics classes, if there are any.experienced in 1960–1962.4The ability of the stock market as a
whole to disengage itself rapidly from that disaster is indeed an
extraordinary phenomenon, bringing back long-buried memories
of the similar invulnerability it showed to the great Florida real-
estate collapse in 1925.
Must there be a return of the new-stock-offering madness
before the present bull market can come to its definitive close?Who knows? But we do know that an intelligent investor will notforget what happened in 1962 and will let others make the next
batch of quick profits in this area and experience the consequent
harrowing losses.
We followed these paragraphs in the 1965 edition by citing “A
Horrible Example,” namely, the sale of stock of Aetna Maintenance
Co. at $9 in November 1961. In typical fashion the shares promptlyadvanced to $15; the next year they fell to 2
3⁄8, and in 1964 to 7⁄8. The
later history of this company was on the extraordinary side, and
illustrates some of the strange metamorphoses that have takenplace in American business, great and small, in recent years. The
curious reader will find the older and newer history of this enter-prise in Appendix 5.
It is by no means difficult to provide even more harrowing
examples taken from the more recent version of “the same old
story,” which covered the years 1967–1970. Nothing could be morepat to our purpose than the case of AAA Enterprises, which hap-
pens to be the first company then listed in Standard & Poor’s Stock
Guide. The shares were sold to the public at $14 in 1968, promptly
advanced to 28, but in early 1971 were quoted at a dismal 25¢.(Even this price represented a gross overvaluation of the enter-prise, since it had just entered the bankruptcy court in a hopeless
condition.) There is so much to be learned, and such important
warnings to be gleaned, from the story of this flotation that we
have reserved it for detailed treatment below, in Chapter 17.144 The Intelligent InvestorCOMMENTARY ON C HAPTER 6
The punches you miss are the ones that wear you out.
—Boxing trainer Angelo Dundee
For the aggressive as well as the defensive investor, what you don’t
do is as important to your success as what you do. In this chapter,
Graham lists his “don’ts” for aggressive investors. Here is a list fortoday.
JUNKY ARD DOGS?
High-yield bonds—which Graham calls “second-grade” or “lower-
grade” and today are called “junk bonds”—get a brisk thumbs-downfrom Graham. In his day, it was too costly and cumbersome for an indi-vidual investor to diversify away the risks of default.
1(To learn how bad
a default can be, and how carelessly even “sophisticated” profes-sional bond investors can buy into one, see the sidebar on p. 146.)Today, however, more than 130 mutual funds specialize in junk bonds.
These funds buy junk by the cartload; they hold dozens of different
bonds. That mitigates Graham’s complaints about the difficulty ofdiversifying. (However, his bias against high-yield preferred stock
remains valid, since there remains no cheap and widely available way
to spread their risks.)
Since 1978, an annual average of 4.4% of the junk-bond market
has gone into default—but, even after those defaults, junk bonds have
1451In the early 1970s, when Graham wrote, there were fewer than a dozen
junk-bond funds, nearly all of which charged sales commissions of up to
8.5%; some even made investors pay a fee for the privilege of reinvestingtheir monthly dividends back into the fund.146 Commentary on Chapter 6
A WORLD OF HURT 
FOR WORLDCOM BONDS
Buying a bond only for its yield is like getting married only for the
sex. If the thing that attracted you in the first place dries up,you’ll find yourself asking, “What else is there?” When theanswer is “Nothing, ” spouses and bondholders alike end up withbroken hearts.
On May 9, 2001, WorldCom, Inc. sold the biggest offering 
of bonds in U.S. corporate history—$11.9 billion worth. Amongthe eager beavers attracted by the yields of up to 8.3% were
the California Public Employees’ Retirement System, one of the
world’s largest pension funds; Retirement Systems of Alabama,whose managers later explained that “the higher yields” were“very attractive to us at the time they were purchased”; and theStrong Corporate Bond Fund, whose comanager was so fondof WorldCom’s fat yield that he boasted, “we’re getting paid
more than enough extra income for the risk. ”
1
But even a 30-second glance at WorldCom’s bond prospec-
tus would have shown that these bonds had nothing to offer but
their yield—and everything to lose. In two of the previous five
years WorldCom’s pretax income (the company’s profits beforeit paid its dues to the IRS) fell short of covering its fixed charges
(the costs of paying interest to its bondholders) by a stupen-
dous $4.1 billion. WorldCom could cover those bond paymentsonly by borrowing more money from banks. And now, with this
mountainous new helping of bonds, WorldCom was fattening
its interest costs by another $900 million per year!
2Like Mr.
Creosote in Monty Python’s The Meaning of Life, WorldCom
was gorging itself to the bursting point.
No yield could ever be high enough to compensate an investor
for risking that kind of explosion. The WorldCom bonds did pro-
duce fat yields of up to 8% for a few months. Then, as Graham
would have predicted, the yield suddenly offered no shelter:
• WorldCom filed bankruptcy in July 2002.
• WorldCom admitted in August 2002 that it had overstated
its earnings by more than $7 billion.3Commentary on Chapter 6 147
• WorldCom’s bonds defaulted when the company could no
longer cover their interest charges; the bonds lost more than
80% of their original value.
1See www .calpers.ca.gov/whatshap/hottopic/worldcom_faqs.htm and www.
calpers.ca.gov/whatsnew/press/2002/0716a.htm; Retirement Systems of Ala-
bama Quarterly Investment Report for May 31, 2001, at www.rsa.state.al.
us/Investments/quarterly_report.htm; and John Bender, Strong Corporate Bond
Fund comanager, quoted in www .businessweek.com/magazine/content/01_22/
b3734118.htm.
2These numbers are all drawn from WorldCom’s prospectus, or sales document,
for the bond offering. Filed May 11, 2001, it can be viewed at www.sec.gov/edgar/searchedgar/companysearch.html (in “Company name” window, enter“WorldCom”). Even without today’s 20/20 hindsight knowledge that WorldCom’searnings were fraudulently overstated, WorldCom’s bond offering would haveappalled Graham.
3For documentation on the collapse of WorldCom, see www.worldcom.com/
infodesk.
still produced an annualized return of 10.5%, versus 8.6% for 10-year
U.S. Treasury bonds.2Unfortunately, most junk-bond funds charge
high fees and do a poor job of preserving the original principal amount
of your investment. A junk fund could be appropriate if you are retired,are looking for extra monthly income to supplement your pension, and
can tolerate temporary tumbles in value. If you work at a bank or other
financial company, a sharp rise in interest rates could limit your raise oreven threaten your job security—so a junk fund, which tends to outper-form most other bond funds when interest rates rise, might makesense as a counterweight in your 401(k). A junk-bond fund, though, isonly a minor option—not an obligation—for the intelligent investor.
2Edward I. Altman and Gaurav Bana, “Defaults and Returns on High-Yield
Bonds, ” research paper, Stern School of Business, New York University,
2002.THE VODKA-AND-B URRITO P ORTFOLIO
Graham considered foreign bonds no better a bet than junk bonds.3
Today, however, one variety of foreign bond may have some appeal for
investors who can withstand plenty of risk. Roughly a dozen mutualfunds specialize in bonds issued in emerging-market nations (or what
used to be called “Third World countries”) like Brazil, Mexico, Nigeria,Russia, and Venezuela. No sane investor would put more than 10% ofa total bond portfolio in spicy holdings like these. But emerging-markets bond funds seldom move in synch with the U.S. stock market,so they are one of the rare investments that are unlikely to drop merelybecause the Dow is down. That can give you a small corner of comfortin your portfolio just when you may need it most.
4
DYING A TRADER’S DEATH
As we’ve already seen in Chapter 1, day trading—holding stocks for a
few hours at a time—is one of the best weapons ever invented for com-mitting financial suicide. Some of your trades might make money, mostof your trades will lose money, but your broker will always makemoney.
And your own eagerness to buy or sell a stock can lower your
return. Someone who is desperate to buy a stock can easily end uphaving to bid 10 cents higher than the most recent share price before
any sellers will be willing to part with it. That extra cost, called “marketimpact, ” never shows up on your brokerage statement, but it’s real. If
you’re overeager to buy 1,000 shares of a stock and you drive its price148 Commentary on Chapter 6
3Graham did not criticize foreign bonds lightly, since he spent several years
early in his career acting as a New York–based bond agent for borrowers in
Japan.
4Two low-cost, well-run emerging-markets bond funds are Fidelity New 
Markets Income Fund and T. Rowe Price Emerging Markets Bond Fund; for more information, see www.fidelity.com, www.troweprice.com, and www.
morningstar.com. Do not buy any emerging-markets bond fund with annualoperating expenses higher than 1.25%, and be forewarned that some ofthese funds charge short-term redemption fees to discourage investors fromholding them for less than three months.up by just five cents, you’ve just cost yourself an invisible but very real
$50. On the flip side, when panicky investors are frantic to sell a stockand they dump it for less than the most recent price, market impacthits home again.
The costs of trading wear away your returns like so many swipes of
sandpaper. Buying or selling a hot little stock can cost 2% to 4% (or
4% to 8% for a “round-trip” buy-and-sell transaction).
5If you put
$1,000 into a stock, your trading costs could eat up roughly $40before you even get started. Sell the stock, and you could fork overanother 4% in trading expenses.
Oh, yes—there’s one other thing. When you trade instead of invest,
you turn long-term gains (taxed at a maximum capital-gains rate of20%) into ordinary income (taxed at a maximum rate of 38.6%).
Add it all up, and a stock trader needs to gain at least 10% just to
break even on buying and selling a stock.
6Anyone can do that once,
by luck alone. To do it often enough to justify the obsessive attention itrequires—plus the nightmarish stress it generates—is impossible.
Thousands of people have tried, and the evidence is clear: The
more you trade, the less you keep.
Finance professors Brad Barber and Terrance Odean of the Univer-
sity of California examined the trading records of more than 66,000
customers of a major discount brokerage firm. From 1991 through
1996, these clients made more than 1.9 million trades. Before thecosts of trading sandpapered away at their returns, the people in the
study actually outperformed the market by an average of at least half a
percentage point per year. But after trading costs, the most active ofthese traders—who shifted more than 20% of their stock holdings perCommentary on Chapter 6 149
5The definitive source on brokerage costs is the Plexus Group of Santa
Monica, California, and its website, www.plexusgroup.com. Plexus argues
persuasively that, just as most of the mass of an iceberg lies below the
ocean surface, the bulk of brokerage costs are invisible—misleadinginvestors into believing that their trading costs are insignificant if commis-
sion costs are low. The costs of trading NASDAQ stocks are considerably
higher for individuals than the costs of trading NYSE-listed stocks (see p. 128, footnote 5).
6Real-world conditions are still more harsh, since we are ignoring state
income taxes in this example.month—went from beating the market to underperforming it by an
abysmal 6.4 percentage points per year. The most patient investors,however—who traded a minuscule 0.2% of their total holdings in an average month—managed to outperform the market by a whisker,even after their trading costs. Instead of giving a huge hunk of their
gains away to their brokers and the IRS, they got to keep almosteverything.
7For a look at these results, see Figure 6-1.
The lesson is clear: Don’t just do something, stand there. It’s time
for everyone to acknowledge that the term “long-term investor” isredundant. A long-term investor is the only kind of investor there is.
Someone who can’t hold on to stocks for more than a few months at atime is doomed to end up not as a victor but as a victim.
THE EARLY BIRD GETS WO RMED
Among the get-rich-quick toxins that poisoned the mind of the invest-
ing public in the 1990s, one of the most lethal was the idea that you
can build wealth by buying IPOs. An IPO is an “initial public offering, ”or the first sale of a company’s stock to the public. At first blush,
investing in IPOs sounds like a great idea—after all, if you’d bought
100 shares of Microsoft when it went public on March 13, 1986, your$2,100 investment would have grown to $720,000 by early 2003.
8
And finance professors Jay Ritter and William Schwert have shown
that if you had spread a total of only $1,000 across every IPO in Janu-
ary 1960, at its offering price, sold out at the end of that month, then invested anew in each successive month’s crop of IPOs, your
portfolio would have been worth more than $533 decillion by year-
end 2001.
(On the printed page, that looks like this:
$533,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000.)150 Commentary on Chapter 6
7Barber and Odean’s findings are available at http://faculty.haas.berkeley.
edu/odean/Current%20Research.htm and http://faculty.gsm.ucdavis.edu/
~bmbarber/research/default.html. Numerous studies, incidentally, havefound virtually identical results among professional money managers—so thisis not a problem limited to “naïve” individuals.
8See www.microsoft.com/msft/stock.htm, “IPO investment results. ”Unfortunately, for every IPO like Microsoft that turns out to be a big
winner, there are thousands of losers. The psychologists Daniel Kahn-
erman and Amos Tversky have shown when humans estimate the like-lihood or frequency of an event, we make that judgment based not on
how often the event has actually occurred, but on how vivid the past
examples are. We all want to buy “the next Microsoft”—preciselybecause we know we missed buying the first Microsoft. But we con-veniently overlook the fact that most other IPOs were terrible invest-ments. You could have earned that $533 decillion gain only if younever missed a single one of the IPO market’s rare winners—a practi-Commentary on Chapter 6 151
The Faster You Run, the Behinder You Get
1011121314151617181920
Extremely
patientVery patient Patient Impatient Hyperactive Market index 
fundAnnual return (%) on portfolios
Return before trading costs Return after trading costsFIGURE 6-1
Researchers Brad Barber and Terrance Odean divided thousands of traders into
five tiers based on how often they turned over their holdings. Those who traded
the least (at the left) kept most of their gains. But the impatient and hyperactive
traders made their brokers rich, not themselves. (The bars at the far right show amarket index fund for comparison.)
Source: Profs. Brad Barber, University of California at Davis, and Terrance Odean, Univer-
sity of California at Berkeleycal impossibility. Finally, most of the high returns on IPOs are captured
by members of an exclusive private club—the big investment banksand fund houses that get shares at the initial (or “underwriting”) price,before the stock begins public trading. The biggest “run-ups” oftenoccur in stocks so small that even many big investors can’t get any
shares; there just aren’t enough to go around.
If, like nearly every investor, you can get access to IPOs only after
their shares have rocketed above the exclusive initial price, yourresults will be terrible. From 1980 through 2001, if you had boughtthe average IPO at its first public closing price and held on for three
years, you would have underperformed the market by more than 23percentage points annually.
9
Perhaps no stock personifies the pipe dream of getting rich from
IPOs better than VA Linux. “LNUX THE NEXT MSFT, ” exulted an early
owner; “BUY NOW, AND RETIRE IN FIVE YEARS FROM NOW. ”10
On December 9, 1999, the stock was placed at an initial public offer-
ing price of $30. But demand for the shares was so ferocious that
when NASDAQ opened that morning, none of the initial owners of VALinux would let go of any shares until the price hit $299. The stockpeaked at $320 and closed at $239.25, a gain of 697 .5% in a single
day.But that gain was earned by only a handful of institutional traders;
individual investors were almost entirely frozen out.
More important, buying IPOs is a bad idea because it flagrantly vio-
lates one of Graham’s most fundamental rules: No matter how manyother people want to buy a stock, you should buy only if the stock is a
cheap way to own a desirable business. At the peak price on day one,
investors were valuing VA Linux’s shares at a total of $12.7 billion.What was the company’s business worth? Less than five years old,
VA Linux had sold a cumulative total of $44 million worth of its soft-
ware and services—but had lost $25 million in the process. In its mostrecent fiscal quarter, VA Linux had generated $15 million in sales but152 Commentary on Chapter 6
9Jay R. Ritter and Ivo Welch, “A Review of IPO Activity, Pricing, and Alloca-
tions, ” Journal of Finance, August, 2002, p. 1797 . Ritter’s website, at http://
bear.cba.ufl.edu/ritter/, and Welch’s home page, at http://welch.som.yale.
edu/, are gold mines of data for anyone interested in IPOs.
10Message no. 9, posted by “GoldFingers69, ” on the VA Linux (LNUX) mes-
sage board at messages.yahoo.com, dated December 16, 1999. MSFT isthe ticker symbol for Microsoft Corp.had lost $10 million on them. This business, then, was losing almost
70 cents on every dollar it took in. VA Linux’s accumulated deficit (theamount by which its total expenses had exceeded its income) was$30 million.
If VA Linux were a private company owned by the guy who lives
next door, and he leaned over the picket fence and asked you how
much you would pay to take his struggling little business off his hands,
would you answer, “Oh, $12.7 billion sounds about right to me”? Or
would you, instead, smile politely, turn back to your barbecue grill, andwonder what on earth your neighbor had been smoking? Relying
exclusively on our own judgment, none of us would be caught deadagreeing to pay nearly $13 billion for a money-loser that was already$30 million in the hole.
But when we’re in public instead of in private, when valuation sud-
denly becomes a popularity contest, the price of a stock seems more
important than the value of the business it represents. As long as
someone else will pay even more than you did for a stock, why does it
matter what the business is worth?
This chart shows why it matters.Commentary on Chapter 6 153
The Legend of VA Linux
$239
$30
$0$50$100$150$200$250
12/9/992/9/00 4/9/00 6/9/00 8/9/0010/9/00 12/9/002/9/01 4/9/01 6/9/01 8/9/0110/9/01 12/9/012/9/02 4/9/02 6/9/02 8/9/0210/9/02 12/9/02Share priceFIGURE 6-2
Sources: VA Linux Systems Inc.; www.morningstar.comAfter going up like a bottle rocket on that first day of trading, VA
Linux came down like a buttered brick. By December 9, 2002, three
years to the day after the stock was at $239.50, VA Linux closed at$1.19 per share.
Weighing the evidence objectively, the intelligent investor should
conclude that IPO does not stand only for “initial public offering. ” More
accurately, it is also shorthand for:
It’s Probably Overpriced,Imaginary Profits Only,
Insiders’ Private Opportunity, or
Idiotic, Preposterous, and Outrageous.154 Commentary on Chapter 6CHAPTER 7
Portfolio Policy for the Enterprising
Investor: The Positive Side
The enterprising investor, by definition, will devote a fair amount
of his attention and efforts toward obtaining a better than run-of-
the-mill investment result. In our discussion of general investmentpolicy we have made some suggestions regarding bond investments
that are addressed chiefly to the enterprising investor. He might be
interested in special opportunities of the following kinds:
(1) Tax-free New Housing Authority bonds effectively guaranteed
by the United States government.
(2) Taxable but high-yielding New Community bonds, also guar-
anteed by the United States government.
(3) Tax-free industrial bonds issued by municipalities, but ser-
viced by lease payments made by strong corporations.
References have been made to these unusual types of bond
issues in Chapter 4.*
At the other end of the spectrum there may be lower-quality
bonds obtainable at such low prices as to constitute true bargain
opportunities. But these would belong in the “special situation”area, where no true distinction exists between bonds and common
stocks.†
155* As already noted (see p. 96, footnote †), the New Housing Authority and
New Community bonds are no longer issued.† Today these “lower-quality bonds” in the “special situation” area areknown as distressed or defaulted bonds. When a company is in (orOperations in Common Stocks
The activities specially characteristic of the enterprising investor
in the common-stock field may be classified under four heads:
1. Buying in low markets and selling in high markets
2. Buying carefully chosen “growth stocks”
3. Buying bargain issues of various types4. Buying into “special situations”
General Market Policy—Formula Timing
We reserve for the next chapter our discussion of the possibili-
ties and limitations of a policy of entering the market when it isdepressed and selling out in the advanced stages of a boom. Formany years in the past this bright idea appeared both simple and
feasible, at least from first inspection of a market chart covering its
periodic fluctuations. We have already admitted ruefully that themarket’s action in the past 20 years has not lent itself to operations
of this sort on any mathematical basis. The fluctuations that have
taken place, while not inconsiderable in extent, would haverequired a special talent or “feel” for trading to take advantage of
them. This is something quite different from the intelligence which
we are assuming in our readers, and we must exclude operationsbased on such skill from our terms of reference.
The 50–50 plan, which we proposed to the defensive investor
and described on p. 90, is about the best specific or automatic for-mula we can recommend to all investors under the conditions of1972. But we have retained a broad leeway between the 25% mini-156 The Intelligent Investor
approaching) bankruptcy, its common stock becomes essentially worthless,
since U.S. bankruptcy law entitles bondholders to a much stronger legalclaim than shareholders. But if the company reorganizes successfully and
comes out of bankruptcy, the bondholders often receive stock in the new
firm, and the value of the bonds usually recovers once the company is ableto pay interest again. Thus the bonds of a troubled company can performalmost as well as the common stock of a healthy company. In these specialsituations, as Graham puts it, “no true distinction exists between bonds andcommon stocks. ”mum and the 75% maximum in common stocks, which we allow to
those investors who have strong convictions about either the dan-
ger or the attractiveness of the general market level. Some 20 years
ago it was possible to discuss in great detail a number of clear-cutformulas for varying the percentage held in common stocks, withconfidence that these plans had practical utility.
1The times seem to
have passed such approaches by, and there would be little point in
trying to determine new levels for buying and selling out of the
market patterns since 1949. That is too short a period to furnish anyreliable guide to the future.*
Growth-Stock Approach
Every investor would like to select the stocks of companies that
will do better than the average over a period of years. A growth
stock may be defined as one that has done this in the past and 
is expected to do so in the future.2Thus it seems only logical that
the intelligent investor should concentrate upon the selection of
growth stocks. Actually the matter is more complicated, as we shall
try to show.
It is a mere statistical chore to identify companies that have “out-
performed the averages” in the past. The investor can obtain a list of
50 or 100 such enterprises from his broker.† Why, then, should he
not merely pick out the 15 or 20 most likely looking issues of this
group and lo! he has a guaranteed-successful stock portfolio?Portfolio Policy for the Enterprising Investor: The Positive Side 157
* Note very carefully what Graham is saying here. Writing in 1972, he con-
tends that the period since 1949—a stretch of more than 22 years—is too
short a period from which to draw reliable conclusions! With his mastery of
mathematics, Graham never forgets that objective conclusions require verylong samples of large amounts of data. The charlatans who peddle “time-
tested” stock-picking gimmicks almost always base their findings on smaller
samples than Graham would ever accept. (Graham often used 50-year peri-ods to analyze past data.)† Today, the enterprising investor can assemble such a list over the Internetby visiting such websites as www.morningstar.com (try the Stock Quickranktool), www.quicken.com/investments/stocks/search/full, and http://yahoo.marketguide.com.There are two catches to this simple idea. The first is that com-
mon stocks with good records and apparently good prospects sell
at correspondingly high prices. The investor may be right in his
judgment of their prospects and still not fare particularly well,merely because he has paid in full (and perhaps overpaid) for theexpected prosperity. The second is that his judgment as to thefuture may prove wrong. Unusually rapid growth cannot keep upforever; when a company has already registered a brilliant expan-
sion, its very increase in size makes a repetition of its achievement
more difficult. At some point the growth curve flattens out, and inmany cases it turns downward.
It is obvious that if one confines himself to a few chosen
instances, based on hindsight, he could demonstrate that fortunescan readily be either made or lost in the growth-stock field. Howcan one judge fairly of the overall results obtainable here? We thinkthat reasonably sound conclusions can be drawn from a study ofthe results achieved by the investment funds specializing in the
growth-stock approach. The authoritative manual entitled Invest-
ment Companies, published annually by Arthur Wiesenberger &
Company, members of the New York Stock Exchange, computes
the annual performance of some 120 such “growth funds” over aperiod of years. Of these, 45 have records covering ten years ormore. The average overall gain for these companies—unweighted
for size of fund—works out at 108% for the decade 1961–1970,
compared with 105% for the S & P composite and 83% for theDJIA.
3In the two years 1969 and 1970 the majority of the 126
“growth funds” did worse than either index. Similar results were
found in our earlier studies. The implication here is that no out-standing rewards came from diversified investment in growth
companies as compared with that in common stocks generally.*158 The Intelligent Investor
* Over the 10 years ending December 31, 2002, funds investing in large
growth companies—today’s equivalent of what Graham calls “growth
funds”—earned an annual average of 5.6%, underperforming the overall
stock market by an average of 3.7 percentage points per year. However,“large value” funds investing in more reasonably priced big companies alsounderperformed the market over the same period (by a full percentage pointper year). Is the problem merely that growth funds cannot reliably selectThere is no reason at all for thinking that the average intelligent
investor, even with much devoted effort, can derive better results
over the years from the purchase of growth stocks than the invest-
ment companies specializing in this area. Surely these organiza-tions have more brains and better research facilities at theirdisposal than you do. Consequently we should advise against theusual type of growth-stock commitment for the enterprisinginvestor.* This is one in which the excellent prospects are fully rec-
ognized in the market and already reflected in a current price-
earnings ratio of, say, higher than 20. (For the defensive investorwe suggested an upper limit of purchase price at 25 times average
earnings of the past seven years. The two criteria would be about
equivalent in most cases.)†Portfolio Policy for the Enterprising Investor: The Positive Side 159
stocks that will outperform the market in the future? Or is it that the high
costs of running the average fund (whether it buys growth or “value” compa-
nies) exceed any extra return the managers can earn with their stock picks?To update fund performance by type, see www.morningstar.com, “Category
Returns. ” For an enlightening reminder of how perishable the performance of
different investment styles can be, see www.callan.com/resource/periodic_table/pertable.pdf.* Graham makes this point to remind you that an “enterprising” investor is
not one who takes more risk than average or who buys “aggressive growth”
stocks; an enterprising investor is simply one who is willing to put in extratime and effort in researching his or her portfolio.
† Notice that Graham insists on calculating the price/earnings ratio based
on a multiyear average of past earnings. That way, you lower the odds thatyou will overestimate a company’s value based on a temporarily high burst
of profitability. Imagine that a company earned $3 per share over the past
12 months, but an average of only 50 cents per share over the previous sixyears. Which number—the sudden $3 or the steady 50 cents—is more likely
to represent a sustainable trend? At 25 times the $3 it earned in the most
recent year, the stock would be priced at $75. But at 25 times the averageearnings of the past seven years ($6 in total earnings, divided by seven,equals 85.7 cents per share in average annual earnings), the stock wouldbe priced at only $21.43. Which number you pick makes a big difference.Finally, it’s worth noting that the prevailing method on Wall Street today—basing price/earnings ratios primarily on “next year’s earnings”—would beThe striking thing about growth stocks as a class is their ten-
dency toward wide swings in market price. This is true of the
largest and longest-established companies—such as General Elec-
tric and International Business Machines—and even more so ofnewer and smaller successful companies. They illustrate our thesisthat the main characteristic of the stock market since 1949 has beenthe injection of a highly speculative element into the shares of com-panies which have scored the most brilliant successes, and which
themselves would be entitled to a high investment rating. (Their
credit standing is of the best, and they pay the lowest interest rateson their borrowings.) The investment caliber of such a company
may not change over a long span of years, but the risk characteris-tics of its stock will depend on what happens to it in the stock mar-
ket. The more enthusiastic the public grows about it, and the fasterits advance as compared with the actual growth in its earnings, theriskier a proposition it becomes.*
But is it not true, the reader may ask, that the really big fortunes
from common stocks have been garnered by those who made asubstantial commitment in the early years of a company in whosefuture they had great confidence, and who held their original
shares unwaveringly while they increased 100-fold or more in
value? The answer is “Yes.” But the big fortunes from single-company investments are almost always realized by persons who160 The Intelligent Investor
anathema to Graham. How can you value a company based on earnings it
hasn’t even generated yet? That’s like setting house prices based on arumor that Cinderella will be building her new castle right around the corner.
* Recent examples hammer Graham’s point home. On September 21,
2000, Intel Corp., the maker of computer chips, announced that it expectedits revenues to grow by up to 5% in the next quarter. At first blush, that
sounds great; most big companies would be delighted to increase their
sales by 5% in just three months. But in response, Intel’s stock dropped22%, a one-day loss of nearly $91 billion in total value. Why? Wall Street’s
analysts had expected Intel’s revenue to rise by up to 10%. Similarly, on
February 21, 2001, EMC Corp., a data-storage firm, announced that itexpected its revenues to grow by at least 25% in 2001—but that a new cau-tion among customers “may lead to longer selling cycles. ” On that whiff ofhesitation, EMC’s shares lost 12.8% of their value in a single day.TABLE 7-1 Average Results of “Growth Funds,” 1961–1970a
1970
1 year 5 years 10 years Dividend
1970 1966–1970 1961–1970 Return
17 large growth funds – 7.5% +23.2% +121.1% 2.3%
106 smaller growth funds—group A –17.7 +20.3 +102.1 1.6
38 smaller growth funds—group B – 4.7 +23.2 +106.7 1.4
15 funds with “growth” in their name –14.2 +13.8 + 97.4 1.7
Standard & Poor’s composite + 3.5% +16.1 +104.7 3.4
Dow Jones Industrial Average + 8.7 + 2.9 + 83.0 3.7
aThese figures are supplied by Wiesenberger Financial Services.have a close relationship with the particular company—through
employment, family connection, etc.—which justifies them in plac-
ing a large part of their resources in one medium and holding on 
to this commitment through all vicissitudes, despite numeroustemptations to sell out at apparently high prices along the way. An investor without such close personal contact will constantly be faced with the question of whether too large a portion of his funds are in this one medium.* Each decline—however tempo-
rary it proves in the sequel—will accentuate his problem; and
internal and external pressures are likely to force him to take whatseems to be a goodly profit, but one far less than the ultimate
bonanza.
4
Three Recommended Fields for “Enterprising Investment”
To obtain better than average investment results over a long pull
requires a policy of selection or operation possessing a twofoldmerit: (1) It must meet objective or rational tests of underlying
soundness; and (2) it must be different from the policy followed bymost investors or speculators. Our experience and study leads us
to recommend three investment approaches that meet these crite-
ria. They differ rather widely from one another, and each mayrequire a different type of knowledge and temperament on the part
of those who assay it.162 The Intelligent Investor
* Today’s equivalent of investors “who have a close relationship with the par-
ticular company” are so-called control persons—senior managers or direc-
tors who help run the company and own huge blocks of stock. Executives
like Bill Gates of Microsoft or Warren Buffett of Berkshire Hathaway havedirect control over a company’s destiny—and outside investors want to see
these chief executives maintain their large shareholdings as a vote of confi-
dence. But less-senior managers and rank-and-file workers cannot influencethe company’s share price with their individual decisions; thus they shouldnot put more than a small percentage of their assets in their own employer’sstock. As for outside investors, no matter how well they think they know thecompany, the same objection applies.The Relatively Unpopular Large Company
If we assume that it is the habit of the market to overvalue com-
mon stocks which have been showing excellent growth or are
glamorous for some other reason, it is logical to expect that it willundervalue—relatively, at least—companies that are out of favorbecause of unsatisfactory developments of a temporary nature.This may be set down as a fundamental law of the stock market,and it suggests an investment approach that should prove both
conservative and promising.
The key requirement here is that the enterprising investor 
concentrate on the larger companies that are going through aperiod of unpopularity. While small companies may also be 
undervalued for similar reasons, and in many cases may laterincrease their earnings and share price, they entail the risk of adefinitive loss of profitability and also of protracted neglect by the market in spite of better earnings. The large companies thushave a double advantage over the others. First, they have the
resources in capital and brain power to carry them through adver-
sity and back to a satisfactory earnings base. Second, the market islikely to respond with reasonable speed to any improvementshown.
A remarkable demonstration of the soundness of this thesis is
found in studies of the price behavior of the unpopular issues in
the Dow Jones Industrial Average. In these it was assumed that an
investment was made each year in either the six or the ten issues in the DJIA which were selling at the lowest multipliers of their
current or previous year’s earnings. These could be called the
“cheapest” stocks in the list, and their cheapness was evidently thereflection of relative unpopularity with investors or traders. It was
assumed further that these purchases were sold out at the end of
holding periods ranging from one to five years. The results of these
investments were then compared with the results shown in either
the DJIA as a whole or in the highest multiplier (i.e., the most pop-ular) group.
The detailed material we have available covers the results of
annual purchases assumed in each of the past 53 years.
5In the early
period, 1917–1933, this approach proved unprofitable. But since1933 the method has shown highly successful results. In 34 testsPortfolio Policy for the Enterprising Investor: The Positive Side 163made by Drexel & Company (now Drexel Firestone)* of one-year
holding—from 1937 through 1969—the cheap stocks did definitely
worse than the DJIA in only three instances; the results were about
the same in six cases; and the cheap stocks clearly outperformedthe average in 25 years. The consistently better performance of the
low-multiplier stocks is shown (Table 7-2) by the average results
for successive five-year periods, when compared with those of theDJIA and of the ten high-multipliers.
The Drexel computation shows further that an original invest-
ment of $10,000 made in the low-multiplier issues in 1936, andswitched each year in accordance with the principle, would havegrown to $66,900 by 1962. The same operations in high-multiplierstocks would have ended with a value of only $25,300; while anoperation in all thirty stocks would have increased the original
fund to $44,000.†
The concept of buying “unpopular large companies” and its164 The Intelligent Investor
TABLE 7-2 Average Annual Percentage Gain or Loss on Test
Issues, 1937–1969
10 Low- 10 High-
Multiplier Multiplier 30 DJIA
Period Issues Issues Stocks
1937–1942 – 2.2 –10.0 – 6.3
1943–1947 17.3 8.3 14.9
1948–1952 16.4 4.6 9.91953–1957 20.9 10.0 13.7
1958–1962 10.2 – 3.3 3.6
1963–1969 (8 years) 8.0 4.6 4.0
* Drexel Firestone, a Philadelphia investment bank, merged in 1973 with
Burnham & Co. and later became Drexel Burnham Lambert, famous for itsjunk-bond financing of the 1980s takeover boom.† This strategy of buying the cheapest stocks in the Dow Jones IndustrialAverage is now nicknamed the “Dogs of the Dow” approach. Information onthe “Dow 10” is available at www.djindexes.com/jsp/dow510Faq.jsp.execution on a group basis, as described above, are both quite sim-
ple. But in considering individual companies a special factor of
opposite import must sometimes to be taken into account. Compa-
nies that are inherently speculative because of widely varyingearnings tend to sell both at a relatively high price and at a rela-tively low multiplier in their good years, and conversely at lowprices and high multipliers in their bad years. These relationshipsare illustrated in Table 7-3, covering fluctuations of Chrysler Corp.
common. In these cases the market has sufficient skepticism as to
the continuation of the unusually high profits to value them con-servatively, and conversely when earnings are low or nonexistent.
(Note that, by the arithmetic, if a company earns “next to nothing”
its shares must sell at a high multiplier of these minuscule profits.)
As it happens Chrysler has been quite exceptional in the DJIA
list of leading companies, and hence it did not greatly affect the the
low-multiplier calculations. It would be quite easy to avoid inclu-
sion of such anomalous issues in a low-multiplier list by requiring
also that the price be low in relation to past average earnings or by
some similar test.
While writing this revision we tested the results of the DJIA-
low-multiplier method applied to a group assumed to be bought atPortfolio Policy for the Enterprising Investor: The Positive Side 165
TABLE 7-3 Chrysler Common Prices and Earnings, 1952–1970
Year Earnings Per Share High or Low Price P/E Ratio
1952 $ 9.04 H 98 10.8
1954 2.13 L 56 26.2
1955 11.49 H 1011⁄2 8.8
1956 2.29 L 52 (in 1957) 22.91957 13.75 H 82 6.71958 (def.) 3.88 L 44
a—
1968 24.92bH 294b11.8
1970 def. L 65b—
a1962 low was 371⁄2.
bAdjusted for stock splits. def.: Net loss.the end of 1968 and revalued on June 30, 1971. This time the figures
proved quite disappointing, showing a sharp loss for the low-
multiplier six or ten and a good profit for the high-multiplier selec-
tions. This one bad instance should not vitiate conclusions basedon 30-odd experiments, but its recent happening gives it a specialadverse weight. Perhaps the aggressive investor should start withthe “low-multiplier” idea, but add other quantitative and qualita-tive requirements thereto in making up his portfolio.
Purchase of Bargain Issues
We define a bargain issue as one which, on the basis of facts
established by analysis, appears to be worth considerably more
than it is selling for. The genus includes bonds and preferred stocks
selling well under par, as well as common stocks. To be as concrete
as possible, let us suggest that an issue is not a true “bargain”unless the indicated value is at least 50% more than the price. What
kind of facts would warrant the conclusion that so great a discrep-ancy exists? How do bargains come into existence, and how does
the investor profit from them?
There are two tests by which a bargain common stock is
detected. The first is by the method of appraisal. This relies largelyon estimating future earnings and then multiplying these by a fac-
tor appropriate to the particular issue. If the resultant value is suffi-
ciently above the market price—and if the investor has confidencein the technique employed—he can tag the stock as a bargain. The
second test is the value of the business to a private owner. This
value also is often determined chiefly by expected future earn-ings—in which case the result may be identical with the first. But in
the second test more attention is likely to be paid to the realizable
value of the assets, with particular emphasis on the net current
assets or working capital.
At low points in the general market a large proportion of com-
mon stocks are bargain issues, as measured by these standards. (Atypical example was General Motors when it sold at less than 30 in1941, equivalent to only 5 for the 1971 shares. It had been earningin excess of $4 and paying $3.50, or more, in dividends.) It is truethat current earnings and the immediate prospects may both bepoor, but a levelheaded appraisal of average future conditions166 The Intelligent Investorwould indicate values far above ruling prices. Thus the wisdom of
having courage in depressed markets is vindicated not only by the
voice of experience but also by application of plausible techniques
of value analysis.
The same vagaries of the market place that recurrently establish
a bargain condition in the general list account for the existence ofmany individual bargains at almost all market levels. The market isfond of making mountains out of molehills and exaggerating ordi-
nary vicissitudes into major setbacks.* Even a mere lack of interest
or enthusiasm may impel a price decline to absurdly low levels.Thus we have what appear to be two major sources of undervalua-
tion: (1) currently disappointing results and (2) protracted neglect
or unpopularity.
However, neither of these causes, if considered by itself alone,
can be relied on as a guide to successful common-stock investment.
How can we be sure that the currently disappointing results are
indeed going to be only temporary? True, we can supply excellent
examples of that happening. The steel stocks used to be famous 
for their cyclical quality, and the shrewd buyer could acquire them at low prices when earnings were low and sell them out in
boom years at a fine profit. A spectacular example is supplied by
Chrysler Corporation, as shown by the data in Table 7-3.
If this were the standard behavior of stocks with fluctuating
earnings, then making profits in the stock market would be an easymatter. Unfortunately, we could cite many examples of declines inPortfolio Policy for the Enterprising Investor: The Positive Side 167
* Among the steepest of the mountains recently made out of molehills: 
In May 1998, Pfizer Inc. and the U.S. Food and Drug Administration
announced that six men taking Pfizer’s anti-impotence drug Viagra had died
of heart attacks while having sex. Pfizer’s stock immediately went flaccid,losing 3.4% in a single day on heavy trading. But Pfizer’s shares surged
ahead when research later showed that there was no cause for alarm; the
stock gained roughly a third over the next two years. In late 1997 , shares ofWarner-Lambert Co. fell by 19% in a day when sales of its new diabetesdrug were temporarily halted in England; within six months, the stock hadnearly doubled. In late 2002, Carnival Corp., which operates cruise ships,lost roughly 10% of its value after tourists came down with severe diarrheaand vomiting—on ships run by other companies.earnings and price which were not followed automatically by a
handsome recovery of both. One such was Anaconda Wire and
Cable, which had large earnings up to 1956, with a high price of 85
in that year. The earnings then declined irregularly for six years;the price fell to 23
1⁄2in 1962, and the following year it was taken
over by its parent enterprise (Anaconda Corporation) at the equiv-
alent of only 33.
The many experiences of this type suggest that the investor
would need more than a mere falling off in both earnings and price
to give him a sound basis for purchase. He should require an indi-cation of at least reasonable stability of earnings over the pastdecade or more—i.e., no year of earnings deficit—plus sufficient
size and financial strength to meet possible setbacks in the future.
The ideal combination here is thus that of a large and prominentcompany selling both well below its past average price and its past
average price/earnings multiplier. This would no doubt have
ruled out most of the profitable opportunities in companies such asChrysler, since their low-price years are generally accompanied byhigh price/earnings ratios. But let us assure the reader now—andno doubt we shall do it again—that there is a world of differencebetween “hindsight profits” and “real-money profits.” We doubt
seriously whether the Chrysler type of roller coaster is a suitable
medium for operations by our enterprising investor.
We have mentioned protracted neglect or unpopularity as a sec-
ond cause of price declines to unduly low levels. A current case ofthis kind would appear to be National Presto Industries. In the bullmarket of 1968 it sold at a high of 45, which was only 8 times the
$5.61 earnings for that year. The per-share profits increased in both
1969 and 1970, but the price declined to only 21 in 1970. This wasless than 4 times the (record) earnings in that year and less than its
net-current-asset value. In March 1972 it was selling at 34, still only
5
1⁄2times the last reported earnings, and at about its enlarged net-
current-asset value.
Another example of this type is provided currently by Standard
Oil of California, a concern of major importance. In early 1972 itwas selling at about the same price as 13 years before, say 56. Itsearnings had been remarkably steady, with relatively small growthbut with only one small decline over the entire period. Its bookvalue was about equal to the market price. With this conservatively168 The Intelligent Investorfavorable 1958–71 record the company has never shown an aver-
age annual price as high as 15 times its current earnings. In early
1972 the price/earnings ratio was only about 10.
A third cause for an unduly low price for a common stock may
be the market’s failure to recognize its true earnings picture. Our
classic example here is Northern Pacific Railway which in 1946–47declined from 36 to 13
1⁄2. The true earnings of the road in 1947 were
close to $10 per share. The price of the stock was held down in
great part by its $1 dividend. It was neglected also because much of
its earnings power was concealed by accounting methods peculiarto railroads.
The type of bargain issue that can be most readily identified is a
common stock that sells for less than the company’s net workingcapital alone, after deducting all prior obligations.* This wouldmean that the buyer would pay nothing at all for the fixed assets—buildings, machinery, etc., or any good-will items that might exist.Very few companies turn out to have an ultimate value less than
the working capital alone, although scattered instances may be
found. The surprising thing, rather, is that there have been so manyenterprises obtainable which have been valued in the market on
this bargain basis. A compilation made in 1957, when the market’s
level was by no means low, disclosed about 150 of such commonstocks. In Table 7-4 we summarize the result of buying, on Decem-
ber 31, 1957, one share of each of the 85 companies in that list for
which data appeared in Standard & Poor’s Monthly Stock Guide,
and holding them for two years.
By something of a coincidence, each of the groups advanced in
the two years to somewhere in the neighborhood of the aggregatenet-current-asset value. The gain for the entire “portfolio” in that
period was 75%, against 50% for Standard & Poor’s 425 industrials.
What is more remarkable is that none of the issues showed signifi-cant losses, seven held about even, and 78 showed appreciable
gains.
Our experience with this type of investment selection—on aPortfolio Policy for the Enterprising Investor: The Positive Side 169
* By “net working capital, ” Graham means a company’s current assets (such
as cash, marketable securities, and inventories) minus its total liabilities(including preferred stock and long-term debt).diversified basis—was uniformly good for many years prior to
1957. It can probably be affirmed without hesitation that it consti-
tutes a safe and profitable method of determining and taking
advantage of undervalued situations. However, during the generalmarket advance after 1957 the number of such opportunities
became extremely limited, and many of those available were show-ing small operating profits or even losses. The market decline of
1969–70 produced a new crop of these “sub-working-capital”
stocks. We discuss this group in Chapter 15, on stock selection for
the enterprising investor.
Bargain-Issue Pattern in Secondary Companies. We have
defined a secondary company as one that is not a leader in a fairlyimportant industry. Thus it is usually one of the smaller concernsin its field, but it may equally well be the chief unit in an unimpor-
tant line. By way of exception, any company that has established
itself as a growth stock is not ordinarily considered “secondary.”
In the great bull market of the 1920s relatively little distinction
was drawn between industry leaders and other listed issues, pro-vided the latter were of respectable size. The public felt that a middle-sized company was strong enough to weather storms and
that it had a better chance for really spectacular expansion than one
that was already of major dimensions. The depression years1931–32, however, had a particularly devastating impact on thecompanies below the first rank either in size or in inherent stability.As a result of that experience investors have since developed a pro-170 The Intelligent Investor
TABLE 7-4 Profit Experience of Undervalued Stocks,
1957–1959
Aggregate Net Aggregate Aggregate
Location of Number of Current Assets Price Price
Market Companies Per Share Dec. 1957 Dec. 1959
New York S.E. 35 $ 748 $ 419 $ 838
American S.E. 25 495 289 492
Midwest S.E. 5 163 87 141Over the counter 20 425 288 433
Total 85 $1,831 $1,083 $1,904nounced preference for industry leaders and a corresponding lack
of interest most of the time in the ordinary company of secondary
importance. This has meant that the latter group have usually sold
at much lower prices in relation to earnings and assets than havethe former. It has meant further that in many instances the pricehas fallen so low as to establish the issue in the bargain class.
When investors rejected the stocks of secondary companies,
even though these sold at relatively low prices, they were express-
ing a belief or fear that such companies faced a dismal future. In
fact, at least subconsciously, they calculated that anyprice was too
high for them because they were heading for extinction—just as in
1929 the companion theory for the “blue chips” was that no price
was too high for them because their future possibilities were limit-less. Both of these views were exaggerations and were productiveof serious investment errors. Actually, the typical middle-sizedlisted company is a large one when compared with the average pri-vately owned business. There is no sound reason why such compa-
nies should not continue indefinitely in operation, undergoing the
vicissitudes characteristic of our economy but earning on thewhole a fair return on their invested capital.
This brief review indicates that the stock market’s attitude
toward secondary companies tends to be unrealistic and conse-quently to create in normal times innumerable instances of major
undervaluation. As it happens, the World War II period and the
postwar boom were more beneficial to the smaller concerns than tothe larger ones, because then the normal competition for sales was
suspended and the former could expand sales and profit marginsmore spectacularly. Thus by 1946 the market’s pattern had com-
pletely reversed itself from that before the war. Whereas the lead-
ing stocks in the Dow Jones Industrial Average had advanced only
40% from the end of 1938 to the 1946 high, Standard & Poor’s indexof low-priced stocks had shot up no less than 280% in the same
period. Speculators and many self-styled investors—with the
proverbial short memories of people in the stock market—wereeager to buy both old and new issues of unimportant companies atinflated levels. Thus the pendulum had swung clear to the oppo-site extreme. The very class of secondary issues that had formerlysupplied by far the largest proportion of bargain opportunities wasnow presenting the greatest number of examples of overenthusi-Portfolio Policy for the Enterprising Investor: The Positive Side 171asm and overvaluation. In a different way this phenomenon was
repeated in 1961 and 1968—the emphasis now being placed on
new offerings of the shares of small companies of less than second-
ary character, and on nearly all companies in certain favored fieldssuch as “electronics,” “computers,” “franchise” concerns, and oth-ers.*
As was to be expected the ensuing market declines fell most
heavily on these overvaluations. In some cases the pendulum
swing may have gone as far as definite under valuation.
If most secondary issues tend normally to be undervalued, what
reason has the investor to believe that he can profit from such a sit-uation? For if it persists indefinitely, will he not always be in the
same market position as when he bought the issue? The answerhere is somewhat complicated. Substantial profits from the pur-chase of secondary companies at bargain prices arise in a variety ofways. First, the dividend return is relatively high. Second, the rein-vested earnings are substantial in relation to the price paid and will
ultimately affect the price. In a five- to seven-year period these
advantages can bulk quite large in a well-selected list. Third, a bullmarket is ordinarily most generous to low-priced issues; thus it
tends to raise the typical bargain issue to at least a reasonable level.
Fourth, even during relatively featureless market periods a contin-uous process of price adjustment goes on, under which secondary
issues that were undervalued may rise at least to the normal level
for their type of security. Fifth, the specific factors that in many172 The Intelligent Investor
* From 1975 through 1983, small (“secondary”) stocks outperformed large
stocks by an amazing average of 17 .6 percentage points per year. The
investing public eagerly embraced small stocks, mutual fund companies
rolled out hundreds of new funds specializing in them, and small stocksobliged by underperforming large stocks by five percentage points per year
over the next decade. The cycle recurred in 1999, when small stocks beatbig stocks by nearly nine percentage points, inspiring investment bankers tosell hundreds of hot little high-tech stocks to the public for the first time.Instead of “electronics, ” “computers, ” or “franchise” in their names, the newbuzzwords were “.com, ” “optical, ” “wireless, ” and even prefixes like “e-” and“I-. ” Investing buzzwords always turn into buzz saws, tearing apart anyonewho believes in them.cases made for a disappointing record of earnings may be cor-
rected by the advent of new conditions, or the adoption of new
policies, or by a change in management.
An important new factor in recent years has been the acquisition
of smaller companies by larger ones, usually as part of a diversifi-
cation program. In these cases the consideration paid has almostalways been relatively generous, and much in excess of the bargainlevels existing not long before.
When interest rates were much lower than in 1970, the field of
bargain issues extended to bonds and preferred stocks that sold atlarge discounts from the amount of their claim. Currently we have
a different situation in which even well-secured issues sell at large
discounts if carrying coupon rates of, say, 4
1⁄2% or less. Example:
American Telephone & Telegraph 25⁄8s, due 1986, sold as low as 51
in 1970; Deere & Co. 41⁄2s, due 1983, sold as low as 62. These may
well turn out to have been bargain opportunities before very
long—if ruling interest rates should decline substantially. For a
bargain bond issue in the more traditional sense perhaps we shallhave to turn once more to the first-mortgage bonds of railroads
now in financial difficulties, which sell in the 20s or 30s. Such situa-tions are not for the inexpert investor; lacking a real sense of values
in this area, he may burn his fingers. But there is an underlying ten-
dency for market decline in this field to be overdone; consequently
the group as a whole offers an especially rewarding invitation tocareful and courageous analysis. In the decade ending in 1948 the
billion-dollar group of defaulted railroad bonds presented numer-
ous and spectacular opportunities in this area. Such opportunitieshave been quite scarce since then; but they seem likely to return in
the 1970s.*Portfolio Policy for the Enterprising Investor: The Positive Side 173
* Defaulted railroad bonds do not offer significant opportunities today. How-
ever, as already noted, distressed and defaulted junk bonds, as well as con-
vertible bonds issued by high-tech companies, may offer real value in the
wake of the 2000–2002 market crash. But diversification in this area isessential—and impractical without at least $100,000 to dedicate to dis-tressed securities alone. Unless you are a millionaire several times over, thiskind of diversification is not an option.Special Situations, or “Workouts”
Not so long ago this was a field which could almost guarantee
an attractive rate of return to those who knew their way around in
it; and this was true under almost any sort of general market situa-tion. It was not actually forbidden territory to members of the gen-eral public. Some who had a flair for this sort of thing could learnthe ropes and become pretty capable practitioners without thenecessity of long academic study or apprenticeship. Others have
been keen enough to recognize the underlying soundness of this
approach and to attach themselves to bright young men who handled funds devoted chiefly to these “special situations.” But 
in recent years, for reasons we shall develop later, the field of “arbi-
trages and workouts” became riskier and less profitable. It may be that in years to come conditions in this field will become morepropitious. In any case it is worthwhile outlining the generalnature and origin of these operations, with one or two illustrativeexamples.
The typical “special situation” has grown out of the increasing
number of acquisitions of smaller firms by large ones, as the gospelof diversification of products has been adopted by more and moremanagements. It often appears good business for such an enter-prise to acquire an existing company in the field it wishes to enterrather than to start a new venture from scratch. In order to make
such acquisition possible, and to obtain acceptance of the deal by
the required large majority of shareholders of the smaller company,it is almost always necessary to offer a price considerably above 
the current level. Such corporate moves have been producing inter-
esting profit-making opportunities for those who have made astudy of this field, and have good judgment fortified by ample
experience.
A great deal of money was made by shrewd investors not so
many years ago through the purchase of bonds of railroads in
bankruptcy—bonds which they knew would be worth much morethan their cost when the railroads were finally reorganized. Afterpromulgation of the plans of reorganization a “when issued” mar-ket for the new securities appeared. These could almost always besold for considerably more than the cost of the old issues whichwere to be exchanged therefor. There were risks of nonconsumma-174 The Intelligent Investortion of the plans or of unexpected delays, but on the whole such
“arbitrage operations” proved highly profitable.
There were similar opportunities growing out of the breakup of
public-utility holding companies pursuant to 1935 legislation.Nearly all these enterprises proved to be worth considerably morewhen changed from holding companies to a group of separateoperating companies.
The underlying factor here is the tendency of the security mar-
kets to undervalue issues that are involved in any sort of compli-cated legal proceedings. An old Wall Street motto has been: “Neverbuy into a lawsuit.” This may be sound advice to the speculator
seeking quick action on his holdings. But the adoption of this atti-
tude by the general public is bound to create bargain opportunitiesin the securities affected by it, since the prejudice against themholds their prices down to unduly low levels.*
The exploitation of special situations is a technical branch of
investment which requires a somewhat unusual mentality and
equipment. Probably only a small percentage of our enterprising
investors are likely to engage in it, and this book is not the appro-priate medium for expounding its complications.
6
Broader Implications of Our Rules for Investment
Investment policy, as it has been developed here, depends in the
first place on a choice by the investor of either the defensive (pas-sive) or aggressive (enterprising) role. The aggressive investormust have a considerable knowledge of security values—enough,in fact, to warrant viewing his security operations as equivalent to
a business enterprise. There is no room in this philosophy for aPortfolio Policy for the Enterprising Investor: The Positive Side 175
* A classic recent example is Philip Morris, whose stock lost 23% in two
days after a Florida court authorized jurors to consider punitive damages of
up to $200 billion against the company—which had finally admitted that cig-
arettes may cause cancer. Within a year, Philip Morris’s stock had doubled—only to fall back after a later multibillion-dollar judgment in Illinois. Severalother stocks have been virtually destroyed by liability lawsuits, includingJohns Manville, W. R. Grace, and USG Corp. Thus, “never buy into a law-suit” remains a valid rule for all but the most intrepid investors to live by.middle ground, or a series of gradations, between the passive and
aggressive status. Many, perhaps most, investors seek to place
themselves in such an intermediate category; in our opinion that is
a compromise that is more likely to produce disappointment thanachievement.
As an investor you cannot soundly become “half a business-
man,” expecting thereby to achieve half the normal rate of businessprofits on your funds.
It follows from this reasoning that the majority of security own-
ers should elect the defensive classification. They do not have thetime, or the determination, or the mental equipment to embark
upon investing as a quasi-business. They should therefore be satis-
fied with the excellent return now obtainable from a defensiveportfolio (and with even less), and they should stoutly resist therecurrent temptation to increase this return by deviating into otherpaths.
The enterprising investor may properly embark upon any secu-
rity operation for which his training and judgment are adequateand which appears sufficiently promising when measured by estab-
lished business standards.
In our recommendations and caveats for this group of investors
we have attempted to apply such business standards. In those forthe defensive investor we have been guided largely by the three
requirements of underlying safety, simplicity of choice, and prom-
ise of satisfactory results, in terms of psychology as well as arith-metic. The use of these criteria has led us to exclude from the field
of recommended investment a number of security classes that arenormally regarded as suitable for various kinds of investors. These
prohibitions were listed in our first chapter on p. 30.
Let us consider a little more fully than before what is implied in
these exclusions. We have advised against the purchase at “fullprices” of three important categories of securities: (1) foreign
bonds, (2) ordinary preferred stocks, and (3) secondary common
stocks, including, of course, original offerings of such issues. By“full prices” we mean prices close to par for bonds or preferredstocks, and prices that represent about the fair business value ofthe enterprise in the case of common stocks. The greater number of defensive investors are to avoid these categories regardless ofprice; the enterprising investor is to buy them only when obtain-176 The Intelligent Investorable at bargain prices—which we define as prices not more than
two-thirds of the appraisal value of the securities.
What would happen if all investors were guided by our advice
in these matters? That question was considered in regard to for-eign bonds, on p. 138, and we have nothing to add at this point.Investment-grade preferred stocks would be bought solely by cor-porations, such as insurance companies, which would benefit fromthe special income-tax status of stock issues owned by them.
The most troublesome consequence of our policy of exclusion is
in the field of secondary common stocks. If the majority ofinvestors, being in the defensive class, are not to buy them at all,
the field of possible buyers becomes seriously restricted. Further-
more, if aggressive investors are to buy them only at bargain levels,then these issues would be doomed to sell for less than their fairvalue, except to the extent that they were purchased unintelli-gently.
This may sound severe and even vaguely unethical. Yet in truth
we are merely recognizing what has actually happened in this areafor the greater part of the past 40 years. Secondary issues, for themost part, dofluctuate about a central level which is well below
their fair value. They reach and even surpass that value at times;but this occurs in the upper reaches of bull markets, when the les-sons of practical experience would argue against the soundness of
paying the prevailing prices for common stocks.
Thus we are suggesting only that the aggressive investor recog-
nize the facts of life as it is lived by secondary issues and that they
accept the central market levels that are normal for that class astheir guide in fixing their own levels for purchase.
There is a paradox here, nevertheless. The average well-selected
secondary company may be fully as promising as the averageindustrial leader. What the smaller concern lacks in inherent stabil-ity it may readily make up in superior possibilities of growth. Con-
sequently it may appear illogical to many readers to term
“unintelligent” the purchase of such secondary issues at their full“enterprise value.” We think that the strongest logic is that of expe-rience. Financial history says clearly that the investor may expectsatisfactory results, on the average, from secondary commonstocks only if he buys them for less than their value to a privateowner, that is, on a bargain basis.Portfolio Policy for the Enterprising Investor: The Positive Side 177The last sentence indicates that this principle relates to the ordi-
nary outside investor. Anyone who can control a secondary com-
pany, or who is part of a cohesive group with such control, is fully
justified in buying the shares on the same basis as if he were invest-ing in a “close corporation” or other private business. The distinc-tion between the position, and consequent investment policy, ofinsiders and of outsiders becomes more important as the enterpriseitself becomes lessimportant. It is a basic characteristic of a primary
or leading company that a single detached share is ordinarilyworth as much as a share in a controlling block. In secondary com-panies the average market value of a detached share is substantially
less than its worth to a controlling owner. Because of this fact, thematter of shareholder-management relations and of those betweeninside and outside shareholders tends to be much more importantand controversial in the case of secondary than in that of primarycompanies.
At the end of Chapter 5 we commented on the difficulty of mak-
ing any hard and fast distinction between primary and secondarycompanies. The many common stocks in the boundary area mayproperly exhibit an intermediate price behavior. It would not be
illogical for an investor to buy such an issue at a small discount
from its indicated or appraisal value, on the theory that it is only a
small distance away from a primary classification and that it may
acquire such a rating unqualifiedly in the not too distant future.
Thus the distinction between primary and secondary issues
need not be made too precise; for, if it were, then a small difference
in quality must produce a large differential in justified purchaseprice. In saying this we are admitting a middle ground in the clas-sification of common stocks, although we counseled against such a
middle ground in the classification of investors. Our reason for this
apparent inconsistency is as follows: No great harm comes fromsome uncertainty of viewpoint regarding a single security, because
such cases are exceptional and not a great deal is at stake in the
matter. But the investor’s choice as between the defensive or theaggressive status is of major consequence to him, and he shouldnot allow himself to be confused or compromised in this basic deci-sion.178 The Intelligent InvestorCOMMENTARY ON C HAPTER 7
It requires a great deal of boldness and a great deal of caution
to make a great fortune; and when you have got it, it requires
ten times as much wit to keep it.
—Nathan Mayer Rothschild
TIMING IS NOTHING
In an ideal world, the intelligent investor would hold stocks only when
they are cheap and sell them when they become overpriced, thenduck into the bunker of bonds and cash until stocks again becomecheap enough to buy. From 1966 through late 2001, one studyclaimed, $1 held continuously in stocks would have grown to $11.71.But if you had gotten out of stocks right before the five worst days ofeach year, your original $1 would have grown to $987 .12.
1
Like most magical market ideas, this one is based on sleight of
hand. How, exactly, would you (or anyone) figure out which days willbe the worst days— before they arrive? On January 7 , 1973, the New
York Times featured an interview with one of the nation’s top financial
forecasters, who urged investors to buy stocks without hesitation: “It’s
very rare that you can be as unqualifiedly bullish as you can now. ” That
forecaster was named Alan Greenspan, and it’s very rare that anyone
1791“The Truth About Timing, ” Barron’s, November 5, 2001, p. 20. The headline
of this article is a useful reminder of an enduring principle for the intelligent in-
vestor. Whenever you see the word “truth” in an article about investing, brace
yourself; many of the quotes that follow are likely to be lies. (For one thing, aninvestor who bought stocks in 1966 and held them through late 2001 wouldhave ended up with at least $40, not $11.71; the study cited in Barron’s ap-
pears to have ignored the reinvestment of dividends.)has ever been so unqualifiedly wrong as the future Federal Reserve
chairman was that day: 1973 and 1974 turned out to be the worstyears for economic growth and the stock market since the GreatDepression.
2
Can professionals time the market any better than Alan Green-
span? “I see no reason not to think the majority of the decline is
behind us, ” declared Kate Leary Lee, president of the market-timingfirm of R. M. Leary & Co., on December 3, 2001. “This is when youwant to be in the market, ” she added, predicting that stocks “lookgood” for the first quarter of 2002.
3Over the next three months,
stocks earned a measly 0.28% return, underperforming cash by 1.5percentage points.
Leary is not alone. A study by two finance professors at Duke Univer-
sity found that if you had followed the recommendations of the best 10%
of all market-timing newsletters, you would have earned a 12.6% annual-ized return from 1991 through 1995. But if you had ignored them andkept your money in a stock index fund, you would have earned 16.4%.
4
As the Danish philosopher Søren Kierkegaard noted, life can only
be understood backwards—but it must be lived forwards. Looking
back, you can always see exactly when you should have bought andsold your stocks. But don’t let that fool you into thinking you can see,
in real time, just when to get in and out. In the financial markets, hind-sight is forever 20/20, but foresight is legally blind. And thus, for mostinvestors, market timing is a practical and emotional impossibility.
5180 Commentary on Chapter 7
2TheNew York Times, January 7 , 1973, special “Economic Survey” section,
pp. 2, 19, 44.
3Press release, “It’s a good time to be in the market, says R. M. Leary &
Company, ” December 3, 2001.
4You would also have saved thousands of dollars in annual subscription
fees (which have not been deducted from the calculations of these newslet-
ters’ returns). And brokerage costs and short-term capital gains taxes are
usually much higher for market timers than for buy-and-hold investors. Forthe Duke study, see John R. Graham and Campbell R. Harvey, “Grading thePerformance of Market-Timing Newsletters, ” Financial Analysts Journal,
November/December, 1997 , pp. 54–66, also available at www.duke.edu/~charvey/research.htm.
5For more on sensible alternatives to market timing—rebalancing and dollar-
cost averaging—see Chapters 5 and 8.W H A TG O E SU P...
Like spacecraft that pick up speed as they rise into the Earth’s strato-
sphere, growth stocks often seem to defy gravity. Let’s look at the tra-jectories of three of the hottest growth stocks of the 1990s: GeneralElectric, Home Depot, and Sun Microsystems. (See Figure 7-1.)
In every year from 1995 through 1999, each grew bigger and more
profitable. Revenues doubled at Sun and more than doubled at HomeDepot. According to Value Line, GE’s revenues grew 29%; its earningsrose 65%. At Home Depot and Sun, earnings per share roughly tripled.
But something else was happening—and it wouldn’t have surprised
Graham one bit. The faster these companies grew, the more expen-sive their stocks became. And when stocks grow faster than compa-nies, investors always end up sorry. As Figure 7-2 shows:
A great company is not a great investment if you pay too much for
the stock.
The more a stock has gone up, the more it seems likely to keep going
up. But that instinctive belief is flatly contradicted by a fundamental lawof financial physics: The bigger they get, the slower they grow. A $1-
billion company can double its sales fairly easily; but where can a $50-
billion company turn to find another $50 billion in business?
Growth stocks are worth buying when their prices are reasonable,
but when their price/earnings ratios go much above 25 or 30 the oddsget ugly:
• Journalist Carol Loomis found that, from 1960 through 1999, only
eight of the largest 150 companies on the Fortune 500 list man-
aged to raise their earnings by an annual average of at least 15%
for two decades.
6
• Looking at five decades of data, the research firm of Sanford C.
Bernstein & Co. showed that only 10% of large U.S. companies
had increased their earnings by 20% for at least five consecutive
years; only 3% had grown by 20% for at least 10 years straight;
and not a single one had done it for 15 years in a row.7Commentary on Chapter 7 181
6Carol J. Loomis, “The 15% Delusion, ” Fortune, February 5, 2001, pp.
102–108.
7See Jason Zweig, “A Matter of Expectations, ” Money, January, 2001, pp.
49–50.1995 1996 1997 1998 1999
General Electric Revenues ($ millions) 43,013 46,119 48,952 51,546 55,645
Earnings per share ($) 0.65 0.73 0.83 0.93 1.07
Yearly stock return (%) 44.5 40.0 50.6 40.7 53.2
Year-end price/earnings ratio 18.4 22.8 29.9 36.4 47.9
Home Depot Revenues ($ millions) 15,470 19,536 24,156 30,219 38,434
Earnings per share ($) 0.34 0.43 0.52 0.71 1.00
Yearly stock return (%) 4.2 5.5 76.8 108.3 68.8
Year-end price/earnings ratio 32.3 27.6 37.5 61.8 73.7
Sun Microsystems Revenues ($ millions) 5,902 7,095 8,598 9,791 1 1,726
Earnings per share ($) 0.11 0.17 0.24 0.29 0.36
Yearly stock return (%) 157.0 12.6 55.2 114.7 261.7
Year-end price/earnings ratio 20.3 17.7 17.9 34.5 97.7
Sources: Bloomberg, Value Line
Notes: Revenues and earnings for fiscal years; stock return for calendar years; price/earnings ratio is December 31 price
divided by reported earnings for previous four quarters.FIGURE 7-1 Up, Up, and Away• An academic study of thousands of U.S. stocks from 1951
through 1998 found that over all 10-year periods, net earnings
grew by an average of 9.7% annually. But for the biggest 20% ofcompanies, earnings grew by an annual average of just 9.3%.
8
Even many corporate leaders fail to understand these odds (see side-
bar on p. 184). The intelligent investor, however, gets interested in biggrowth stocks not when they are at their most popular—but when some-thing goes wrong. In July 2002, Johnson & Johnson announced thatFederal regulators were investigating accusations of false record keep-ing at one of its drug factories, and the stock lost 16% in a single day.That took J & J’s share price down from 24 times the previous 12 months’
earnings to just 20 times. At that lower level, Johnson & Johnson might
once again have become a growth stock with room to grow—making it anexample of what Graham calls “the relatively unpopular large company. ”
9
This kind of temporary unpopularity can create lasting wealth by enabling
you to buy a great company at a good price.Commentary on Chapter 7 183
FIGURE 7-2 Look Out Below
Stock price Stock price P/E ratio P/E ratio
12/31/99 12/31/02 12/31/99 March 2003
General Electric $51.58 $24.35 48.1 15.7
Home Depot $68.75 $23.96 97.4 14.3
Sun Microsystems $38.72 $38.72 123.3 n/a
n/a: Not applicable; Sun had net loss in 2002.
Sources: www.morningstar.com, yahoo.marketguide.com
8Louis K. C. Chan, Jason Karceski, and Josef Lakonishok, “The Level and
Persistence of Growth Rates, ” National Bureau of Economic Research,
Working Paper No. 8282, May, 2001, available at www.nber.org/papers/
w8282.
9Almost exactly 20 years earlier, in October 1982, Johnson & Johnson’s stock
lost 17 .5% of its value in a week when several people died after ingestingTylenol that had been laced with cyanide by an unknown outsider. Johnson &Johnson responded by pioneering the use of tamper-proof packaging, and thestock went on to be one of the great investments of the 1980s.184 Commentary on Chapter 7
HIGH POTENTIAL 
FOR HYPE POTENTIAL
Investors aren’t the only people who fall prey to the delusion that
hyper-growth can go on forever. In February 2000, chief execu-tive John Roth of Nortel Networks was asked how much biggerhis giant fiber-optics company could get. “The industry is grow-ing 14% to 15% a year, ” Roth replied, “and we’re going to grow
six points faster than that. For a company our size, that’s pretty
heady stuff. ” Nortel’s stock, up nearly 51% annually over the pre-vious six years, was then trading at 87 times what Wall Street
was guessing it might earn in 2000. Was the stock overpriced?
“It’s getting up there, ” shrugged Roth, “but there’s still plenty ofroom to grow our valuation as we execute on the wireless strat-
egy. ” (After all, he added, Cisco Systems was trading at 121times its projected earnings!)
1
As for Cisco, in November 2000, its chief executive, John
Chambers, insisted that his company could keep growing atleast 50% annually. “Logic, ” he declared, “would indicate this is
a breakaway. ” Cisco’s stock had come way down—it was thentrading at a mere 98 times its earnings over the previous year—
and Chambers urged investors to buy. “So who you going to bet
on?” he asked. “Now may be the opportunity. ”
2
Instead, these growth companies shrank—and their over-
priced stocks shriveled. Nortel’s revenues fell by 37% in 2001,
and the company lost more than $26 billion that year. Cisco’s
revenues did rise by 18% in 2001, but the company ended upwith a net loss of more than $1 billion. Nortel’s stock, at$113.50 when Roth spoke, finished 2002 at $1.65. Cisco’sshares, at $52 when Chambers called his company a “break-away, ” crumbled to $13.
Both companies have since become more circumspect
about forecasting the future.
1Lisa Gibbs, “Optic Uptick, ” Money, April, 2000, pp. 54–55.
2Brooke Southall, “Cisco’s Endgame Strategy, ” InvestmentNews, November
30, 2000, pp. 1, 23.SHOULD YOU PUT ALL YOUR EGGS 
IN ONE BASKET?
“Put all your eggs into one basket and then watch that basket, ” pro-
claimed Andrew Carnegie a century ago. “Do not scatter your shot....T h e  great successes of life are made by concentration. ” As Gra-
ham points out, “the really big fortunes from common stocks” havebeen made by people who packed all their money into one investment
they knew supremely well.
Nearly all the richest people in America trace their wealth to a con-
centrated investment in a single industry or even a single company
(think Bill Gates and Microsoft, Sam Walton and Wal-Mart, or theRockefellers and Standard Oil). The Forbes 400 list of the richest
Americans, for example, has been dominated by undiversified fortunes
ever since it was first compiled in 1982.
However, almost no small fortunes have been made this way—and
not many big fortunes have been kept this way. What Carnegie neg-
lected to mention is that concentration also makes most of the greatfailures of life. Look again at the Forbes “Rich List. ” Back in 1982, the
average net worth of a Forbes 400 member was $230 million. To
make it onto the 2002 Forbes 400, the average 1982 member
needed to earn only a 4.5% average annual return on his wealth—
during a period when even bank accounts yielded far more than that
and the stock market gained an annual average of 13.2%.
So how many of the Forbes 400 fortunes from 1982 remained on
the list 20 years later? Only 64 of the original members—a measly16%—were still on the list in 2002. By keeping all their eggs in the one
basket that had gotten them onto the list in the first place—once-
booming industries like oil and gas, or computer hardware, or basicmanufacturing—all the other original members fell away. When hard
times hit, none of these people—despite all the huge advantages that
great wealth can bring—were properly prepared. They could onlystand by and wince at the sickening crunch as the constantly chang-
ing economy crushed their only basket and all their eggs.
10Commentary on Chapter 7 185
10For the observation that it is amazingly difficult to remain on the Forbes
400, I am indebted to investment manager Kenneth Fisher (himself a Forbes
columnist).THE BARGAIN BIN
You might think that in our endlessly networked world, it would be a
cinch to build and buy a list of stocks that meet Graham’s criteria forbargains (p. 169). Although the Internet is a help, you’ll still have to domuch of the work by hand.
Grab a copy of today’s Wall Street Journal, turn to the “Money &
Investing” section, and take a look at the NYSE and NASDAQ Score-cards to find the day’s lists of stocks that have hit new lows for thepast year—a quick and easy way to search for companies that might
pass Graham’s net-working-capital tests. (Online, try http://quote.morningstar.com/highlow.html?msection=HighLow.)
To see whether a stock is selling for less than the value of net work-
ing capital (what Graham’s followers call “net nets”), download or
request the most recent quarterly or annual report from the company’swebsite or from the EDGAR database at www.sec.gov. From the
company’s current assets, subtract its total liabilities, including any
preferred stock and long-term debt. (Or consult your local publiclibrary’s copy of the Value Line Investment Survey, saving yourself a
costly annual subscription. Each issue carries a list of “Bargain Base-
ment Stocks” that come close to Graham’s definition.) Most of thesestocks lately have been in bombed-out areas like high-tech and
telecommunications.
As of October 31, 2002, for instance, Comverse Technology had
$2.4 billion in current assets and $1.0 billion in total liabilities, giving it$1.4 billion in net working capital. With fewer than 190 million shares
of stock, and a stock price under $8 per share, Comverse had a total
market capitalization of just under $1.4 billion. With the stock priced
at no more than the value of Comverse’s cash and inventories, thecompany’s ongoing business was essentially selling for nothing. As
Graham knew, you can still lose money on a stock like Comverse—
which is why you should buy them only if you can find a couple dozenat a time and hold them patiently. But on the very rare occasions when
Mr. Market generates that many true bargains, you’re all but certain to
make money.
WHAT’S YOUR FOREIGN POLICY?
Investing in foreign stocks may not be mandatory for the intelligent
investor, but it is definitely advisable. Why? Let’s try a little thought186 Commentary on Chapter 7experiment. It’s the end of 1989, and you’re Japanese. Here are the
facts:
• Over the past 10 years, your stock market has gained an annual
average of 21.2%, well ahead of the 17 .5% annual gains in the
United States.
• Japanese companies are buying up everything in the United
States from the Pebble Beach golf course to Rockefeller Center;
meanwhile, American firms like Drexel Burnham Lambert, Finan-
cial Corp. of America, and Texaco are going bankrupt.
• The U.S. high-tech industry is dying. Japan’s is booming.
In 1989, in the land of the rising sun, you can only conclude that
investing outside of Japan is the dumbest idea since sushi vending
machines. Naturally, you put all your money in Japanese stocks.
The result? Over the next decade, you lose roughly two-thirds of
your money.
The lesson? It’s not that you should never invest in foreign markets
like Japan; it’s that the Japanese should never have kept all their
money at home. And neither should you. If you live in the UnitedStates, work in the United States, and get paid in U.S. dollars, you arealready making a multilayered bet on the U.S. economy. To be prudent,
you should put some of your investment portfolio elsewhere—simply
because no one, anywhere, can ever know what the future will bring athome or abroad. Putting up to a third of your stock money in mutual
funds that hold foreign stocks (including those in emerging markets)
helps insure against the risk that our own backyard may not always bethe best place in the world to invest.Commentary on Chapter 7 187CHAPTER 8
The Investor and Market Fluctuations
To the extent that the investor’s funds are placed in high-grade
bonds of relatively short maturity—say, of seven years or less—he
will not be affected significantly by changes in market prices andneed not take them into account. (This applies also to his holdingsof U.S. savings bonds, which he can always turn in at his cost price
or more.) His longer-term bonds may have relatively wide price
swings during their lifetimes, and his common-stock portfolio isalmost certain to fluctuate in value over any period of several
years.
The investor should know about these possibilities and should
be prepared for them both financially and psychologically. He will
want to benefit from changes in market levels—certainly throughan advance in the value of his stock holdings as time goes on, andperhaps also by making purchases and sales at advantageous
prices. This interest on his part is inevitable, and legitimate
enough. But it involves the very real danger that it will lead himinto speculative attitudes and activities. It is easy for us to tell you
not to speculate; the hard thing will be for you to follow this
advice. Let us repeat what we said at the outset: If you want tospeculate do so with your eyes open, knowing that you will proba-
bly lose money in the end; be sure to limit the amount at risk and to
separate it completely from your investment program.
We shall deal first with the more important subject of price
changes in common stocks, and pass later to the area of bonds. In Chapter 3 we supplied a historical survey of the stock market’saction over the past hundred years. In this section we shall returnto that material from time to time, in order to see what the pastrecord promises the investor—in either the form of long-termappreciation of a portfolio held relatively unchanged through 
188successive rises and declines, or in the possibilities of buying 
near bear-market lows and selling not too far below bull-market
highs.
Market Fluctuations as a Guide to Investment Decisions
Since common stocks, even of investment grade, are subject to
recurrent and wide fluctuations in their prices, the intelligentinvestor should be interested in the possibilities of profiting from
these pendulum swings. There are two possible ways by which he may try to do this: the way of timing and the way of pricing.
By timing we mean the endeavor to anticipate the action of the
stock market—to buy or hold when the future course is deemed to be upward, to sell or refrain from buying when the course is downward. By pricing we mean the endeavor to buy stockswhen they are quoted below their fair value and to sell them when
they rise above such value. A less ambitious form of pricing is 
the simple effort to make sure that when you buy you do not 
pay too much for your stocks. This may suffice for the defen-sive investor, whose emphasis is on long-pull holding; but as 
such it represents an essential minimum of attention to market 
levels.
1
We are convinced that the intelligent investor can derive satis-
factory results from pricing of either type. We are equally sure that
if he places his emphasis on timing, in the sense of forecasting, he
will end up as a speculator and with a speculator’s financialresults. This distinction may seem rather tenuous to the layman,
and it is not commonly accepted on Wall Street. As a matter of
business practice, or perhaps of thoroughgoing conviction, thestock brokers and the investment services seem wedded to the
principle that both investors and speculators in common stocks
should devote careful attention to market forecasts.
The farther one gets from Wall Street, the more skepticism one
will find, we believe, as to the pretensions of stock-market forecast-ing or timing. The investor can scarcely take seriously the innumer-able predictions which appear almost daily and are his for theasking. Yet in many cases he pays attention to them and even actsupon them. Why? Because he has been persuaded that it is impor-tant for him to form some opinion of the future course of the stockThe Investor and Market Fluctuations 189market, and because he feels that the brokerage or service forecast
is at least more dependable than his own.*
We lack space here to discuss in detail the pros and cons of mar-
ket forecasting. A great deal of brain power goes into this field, andundoubtedly some people can make money by being good stock-
market analysts. But it is absurd to think that the general public can
ever make money out of market forecasts. For who will buy whenthe general public, at a given signal, rushes to sell out at a profit? If
you, the reader, expect to get rich over the years by following some
system or leadership in market forecasting, you must be expectingto try to do what countless others are aiming at, and to be able to
do it better than your numerous competitors in the market. There
is no basis either in logic or in experience for assuming that anytypical or average investor can anticipate market movements moresuccessfully than the general public, of which he is himself a part.
There is one aspect of the “timing” philosophy which seems to
have escaped everyone’s notice. Timing is of great psychological
importance to the speculator because he wants to make his profit in190 The Intelligent Investor
* In the late 1990s, the forecasts of “market strategists” became more influ-
ential than ever before. They did not, unfortunately, become more accurate.
On March 10, 2000, the very day that the NASDAQ composite index hit its
all-time high of 5048.62, Prudential Securities’s chief technical analystRalph Acampora said in USA Today that he expected NASDAQ to hit 6000
within 12 to 18 months. Five weeks later, NASDAQ had already shriveled to3321.29—but Thomas Galvin, a market strategist at Donaldson, Lufkin &Jenrette, declared that “there’s only 200 or 300 points of downside for the
NASDAQ and 2000 on the upside. ” It turned out that there were no points
on the upside and more than 2000 on the downside, as NASDAQ keptcrashing until it finally scraped bottom on October 9, 2002, at 1114.11. In
March 2001, Abby Joseph Cohen, chief investment strategist at Goldman,
Sachs & Co., predicted that the Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index wouldclose the year at 1,650 and that the Dow Jones Industrial Average wouldfinish 2001 at 13,000. “We do not expect a recession, ” said Cohen, “andbelieve that corporate profits are likely to grow at close to trend growthrates later this year. ” The U.S. economy was sinking into recession even asshe spoke, and the S & P 500 ended 2001 at 1148.08, while the Dow fin-ished at 10,021.50—30% and 23% below her forecasts, respectively.a hurry. The idea of waiting a year before his stock moves up is
repugnant to him. But a waiting period, as such, is of no conse-
quence to the investor. What advantage is there to him in having
his money uninvested until he receives some (presumably) trust-worthy signal that the time has come to buy? He enjoys an advan-tage only if by waiting he succeeds in buying later at a sufficientlylower price to offset his loss of dividend income. What this means is
that timing is of no real value to the investor unless it coincides
with pricing—that is, unless it enables him to repurchase his shares
at substantially under his previous selling price.
In this respect the famous Dow theory for timing purchases and
sales has had an unusual history.* Briefly, this technique takes itssignal to buy from a special kind of “breakthrough” of the stockaverages on the up side, and its selling signal from a similar break-through on the down side. The calculated—not necessarilyactual—results of using this method showed an almost unbrokenseries of profits in operations from 1897 to the early 1960s. On the
basis of this presentation the practical value of the Dow theory
would have appeared firmly established; the doubt, if any, wouldapply to the dependability of this published “record” as a picture
of what a Dow theorist would actually have done in the market.
A closer study of the figures indicates that the quality of the
results shown by the Dow theory changed radically after 1938—a few years after the theory had begun to be taken seriously on
Wall Street. Its spectacular achievement had been in giving a sellsignal, at 306, about a month before the 1929 crash and in keeping
its followers out of the long bear market until things had prettywell righted themselves, at 84, in 1933. But from 1938 on the Dow
theory operated mainly by taking its practitioners out at a pretty
good price but then putting them back in again at a higher price.
For nearly 30 years thereafter, one would have done appreciablybetter by just buying and holding the DJIA.
2
In our view, based on much study of this problem, the change in
the Dow-theory results is not accidental. It demonstrates an inher-
ent characteristic of forecasting and trading formulas in the fields
of business and finance. Those formulas that gain adherents andThe Investor and Market Fluctuations 191
* See p. 3.importance do so because they have worked well over a period, or
sometimes merely because they have been plausibly adapted to the
statistical record of the past. But as their acceptance increases, their
reliability tends to diminish. This happens for two reasons: First,the passage of time brings new conditions which the old formulano longer fits. Second, in stock-market affairs the popularity of atrading theory has itself an influence on the market’s behaviorwhich detracts in the long run from its profit-making possibilities.
(The popularity of something like the Dow theory may seem to cre-
ate its own vindication, since it would make the market advance ordecline by the very action of its followers when a buying or selling
signal is given. A “stampede” of this kind is, of course, much more
of a danger than an advantage to the public trader.)
Buy-Low–Sell-High Approach
We are convinced that the average investor cannot deal success-
fully with price movements by endeavoring to forecast them. Can
he benefit from them after they have taken place—i.e., by buying
after each major decline and selling out after each major advance?
The fluctuations of the market over a period of many years prior to1950 lent considerable encouragement to that idea. In fact, a classicdefinition of a “shrewd investor” was “one who bought in a bearmarket when everyone else was selling, and sold out in a bull mar-
ket when everyone else was buying.” If we examine our Chart I,
covering the fluctuations of the Standard & Poor’s composite indexbetween 1900 and 1970, and the supporting figures in Table 3-1 (p.
66), we can readily see why this viewpoint appeared valid until
fairly recent years.
Between 1897 and 1949 there were ten complete market cycles,
running from bear-market low to bull-market high and back tobear-market low. Six of these took no longer than four years, fourran for six or seven years, and one—the famous “new-era” cycle of
1921–1932—lasted eleven years. The percentage of advance from
the lows to highs ranged from 44% to 500%, with most betweenabout 50% and 100%. The percentage of subsequent declinesranged from 24% to 89%, with most found between 40% and 50%.(It should be remembered that a decline of 50% fully offsets a pre-ceding advance of 100%.)192 The Intelligent InvestorNearly all the bull markets had a number of well-defined char-
acteristics in common, such as (1) a historically high price level, (2)
high price/earnings ratios, (3) low dividend yields as against bond
yields, (4) much speculation on margin, and (5) many offerings ofnew common-stock issues of poor quality. Thus to the student ofstock-market history it appeared that the intelligent investorshould have been able to identify the recurrent bear and bull mar-kets, to buy in the former and sell in the latter, and to do so for the
most part at reasonably short intervals of time. Various methods
were developed for determining buying and selling levels of thegeneral market, based on either value factors or percentage move-
ments of prices or both.
But we must point out that even prior to the unprecedented bull
market that began in 1949, there were sufficient variations in the
successive market cycles to complicate and sometimes frustrate thedesirable process of buying low and selling high. The most notableof these departures, of course, was the great bull market of the late
1920s, which threw all calculations badly out of gear.* Even in 1949,
therefore, it was by no means a certainty that the investor couldbase his financial policies and procedures mainly on the endeavor
to buy at low levels in bear markets and to sell out at high levels in
bull markets.
It turned out, in the sequel, that the opposite was true. TheThe Investor and Market Fluctuations 193
* Without bear markets to take stock prices back down, anyone waiting to
“buy low” will feel completely left behind—and, all too often, will end up
abandoning any former caution and jumping in with both feet. That’s why
Graham’s message about the importance of emotional discipline is so
important. From October 1990 through January 2000, the Dow Jones
Industrial Average marched relentlessly upward, never losing more than
20% and suffering a loss of 10% or more only three times. The total gain(not counting dividends): 395.7%. According to Crandall, Pierce & Co., this
was the second-longest uninterrupted bull market of the past century; only
the 1949–1961 boom lasted longer. The longer a bull market lasts, themore severely investors will be afflicted with amnesia; after five years or so,many people no longer believe that bear markets are even possible. Allthose who forget are doomed to be reminded; and, in the stock market,recovered memories are always unpleasant.market’s behavior in the past 20 years has not followed the former
pattern, nor obeyed what once were well-established danger sig-
nals, nor permitted its successful exploitation by applying old rules
for buying low and selling high. Whether the old, fairly regularbull-and-bear-market pattern will eventually return we do notknow. But it seems unrealistic to us for the investor to endeavor tobase his present policy on the classic formula—i.e., to wait fordemonstrable bear-market levels before buying any common
stocks. Our recommended policy has, however, made provision for changes in the proportion of common stocks to bonds in the
portfolio, if the investor chooses to do so, according as the level 
of stock prices appears less or more attractive by value stan-
dards.*
Formula Plans
In the early years of the stock-market rise that began in 1949–50
considerable interest was attracted to various methods of taking
advantage of the stock market’s cycles. These have been known as
“formula investment plans.” The essence of all such plans—exceptthe simple case of dollar averaging—is that the investor automati-cally does some selling of common stocks when the market
advances substantially. In many of them a very large rise in themarket level would result in the sale of all common-stock holdings;
others provided for retention of a minor proportion of equities
under all circumstances.
This approach had the double appeal of sounding logical (and
conservative) and of showing excellent results when applied retro-spectively to the stock market over many years in the past. Unfor-tunately, its vogue grew greatest at the very time when it was
destined to work least well. Many of the “formula planners” found
themselves entirely or nearly out of the stock market at some levelin the middle 1950s. True, they had realized excellent profits, but in
a broad sense the market “ran away” from them thereafter, and194 The Intelligent Investor
* Graham discusses this “recommended policy” in Chapter 4 (pp. 89–91).
This policy, now called “tactical asset allocation, ” is widely followed by insti-tutional investors like pension funds and university endowments.their formulas gave them little opportunity to buy back a common-
stock position.*
There is a similarity between the experience of those adopting
the formula-investing approach in the early 1950s and those whoembraced the purely mechanical version of the Dow theory some20 years earlier. In both cases the advent of popularity markedalmost the exact moment when the system ceased to work well. Wehave had a like discomfiting experience with our own “central
value method” of determining indicated buying and selling levels
of the Dow Jones Industrial Average. The moral seems to be thatany approach to moneymaking in the stock market which can be
easily described and followed by a lot of people is by its terms too
simple and too easy to last.† Spinoza’s concluding remark appliesto Wall Street as well as to philosophy: “All things excellent are asdifficult as they are rare.”
Market Fluctuations of the Investor’s Portfolio
Every investor who owns common stocks must expect to see
them fluctuate in value over the years. The behavior of the DJIA
since our last edition was written in 1964 probably reflects pretty
well what has happened to the stock portfolio of a conservativeinvestor who limited his stock holdings to those of large, promi-
nent, and conservatively financed corporations. The overall value
advanced from an average level of about 890 to a high of 995 inThe Investor and Market Fluctuations 195
* Many of these “formula planners” would have sold all their stocks at the
end of 1954, after the U.S. stock market rose 52.6%, the second-highest
yearly return then on record. Over the next five years, these market-timers
would likely have stood on the sidelines as stocks doubled.† Easy ways to make money in the stock market fade for two reasons: the
natural tendency of trends to reverse over time, or “regress to the mean, ”
and the rapid adoption of the stock-picking scheme by large numbers ofpeople, who pile in and spoil all the fun of those who got there first. (Notethat, in referring to his “discomfiting experience, ” Graham is—as always—honest in admitting his own failures.) See Jason Zweig, “Murphy Was anInvestor, ” Money, July, 2002, pp. 61–62, and Jason Zweig, “New Year’s
Play, ” Money, December, 2000, pp. 89–90.1966 (and 985 again in 1968), fell to 631 in 1970, and made an
almost full recovery to 940 in early 1971. (Since the individual
issues set their high and low marks at different times, the fluc-
tuations in the Dow Jones group as a whole are less severe thanthose in the separate components.) We have traced through theprice fluctuations of other types of diversified and conservative common-stock portfolios and we find that the overall results arenot likely to be markedly different from the above. In general, the
shares of second-line companies* fluctuate more widely than the
major ones, but this does not necessarily mean that a group of well-established but smaller companies will make a poorer showing
over a fairly long period. In any case the investor may as well
resign himself in advance to the probability rather than the merepossibility that most of his holdings will advance, say, 50% or morefrom their low point and decline the equivalent one-third or morefrom their high point at various periods in the next five years.†
A serious investor is not likely to believe that the day-to-day or
even month-to-month fluctuations of the stock market make himricher or poorer. But what about the longer-term and widerchanges? Here practical questions present themselves, and the psy-
chological problems are likely to grow complicated. A substantial
rise in the market is at once a legitimate reason for satisfaction anda cause for prudent concern, but it may also bring a strong tempta-
tion toward imprudent action. Your shares have advanced, good!196 The Intelligent Investor
* Today’s equivalent of what Graham calls “second-line companies” would
be any of the thousands of stocks not included in the Standard & Poor’s
500-stock index. A regularly revised list of the 500 stocks in the S & P index
is available at www.standardandpoors.com.† Note carefully what Graham is saying here. It is not just possible, but prob-
able, that most of the stocks you own will gain at least 50% from their low-
est price and lose at least 33% from their highest price—regardless of whichstocks you own or whether the market as a whole goes up or down. If you
can’t live with that—or you think your portfolio is somehow magically exempt
from it—then you are not yet entitled to call yourself an investor. (Grahamrefers to a 33% decline as the “equivalent one-third” because a 50% gaintakes a $10 stock to $15. From $15, a 33% loss [or $5 drop] takes it rightback to $10, where it started.)You are richer than you were, good! But has the price risen toohigh,
and should you think of selling? Or should you kick yourself for
not having bought more shares when the level was lower? Or—
worst thought of all—should you now give way to the bull-marketatmosphere, become infected with the enthusiasm, the overconfi-dence and the greed of the great public (of which, after all, you area part), and make larger and dangerous commitments? Presentedthus in print, the answer to the last question is a self-evident no,but
even the intelligent investor is likely to need considerable willpower to keep from following the crowd.
It is for these reasons of human nature, even more than by calcu-
lation of financial gain or loss, that we favor some kind of mechan-ical method for varying the proportion of bonds to stocks in theinvestor’s portfolio. The chief advantage, perhaps, is that such aformula will give him something to do. As the market advances he
will from time to time make sales out of his stockholdings, puttingthe proceeds into bonds; as it declines he will reverse the proce-
dure. These activities will provide some outlet for his otherwise
too-pent-up energies. If he is the right kind of investor he will takeadded satisfaction from the thought that his operations are exactly
opposite from those of the crowd.*
Business Valuations versus Stock-Market Valuations
The impact of market fluctuations upon the investor’s true situ-
ation may be considered also from the standpoint of the share-
holder as the part owner of various businesses. The holder ofmarketable shares actually has a double status, and with it theprivilege of taking advantage of either at his choice. On the one
hand his position is analogous to that of a minority shareholder or
silent partner in a private business. Here his results are entirelydependent on the profits of the enterprise or on a change in the
underlying value of its assets. He would usually determine the
value of such a private-business interest by calculating his share ofthe net worth as shown in the most recent balance sheet. On theThe Investor and Market Fluctuations 197
* For today’s investor, the ideal strategy for pursuing this “formula” is rebal-
ancing, which we discuss on pp. 104–105.other hand, the common-stock investor holds a piece of paper, an
engraved stock certificate, which can be sold in a matter of minutes
at a price which varies from moment to moment—when the mar-
ket is open, that is—and often is far removed from the balance-sheet value.*
The development of the stock market in recent decades has
made the typical investor more dependent on the course of pricequotations and less free than formerly to consider himself merely a
business owner. The reason is that the successful enterprises in
which he is likely to concentrate his holdings sell almost constantlyat prices well above their net asset value (or book value, or 
“balance-sheet value”). In paying these market premiums the
investor gives precious hostages to fortune, for he must depend onthe stock market itself to validate his commitments.†
This is a factor of prime importance in present-day investing,
and it has received less attention than it deserves. The whole struc-ture of stock-market quotations contains a built-in contradiction.
The better a company’s record and prospects, the less relationship
the price of its shares will have to their book value. But the greaterthe premium above book value, the less certain the basis of deter-
mining its intrinsic value—i.e., the more this “value” will depend
on the changing moods and measurements of the stock market.Thus we reach the final paradox, that the more successful the com-
pany, the greater are likely to be the fluctuations in the price of its
shares. This really means that, in a very real sense, the better the198 The Intelligent Investor
* Most companies today provide “an engraved stock certificate” only upon
special request. Stocks exist, for the most part, in purely electronic form
(much as your bank account contains computerized credits and debits, not
actual currency) and thus have become even easier to trade than they werein Graham’s day.
† Net asset value, book value, balance-sheet value, and tangible-asset value
are all synonyms for net worth, or the total value of a company’s physicaland financial assets minus all its liabilities. It can be calculated using the bal-ance sheets in a company’s annual and quarterly reports; from total share-holders’ equity, subtract all “soft” assets such as goodwill, trademarks, andother intangibles. Divide by the fully diluted number of shares outstanding toarrive at book value per share.quality of a common stock, the more speculative it is likely to be—at
least as compared with the unspectacular middle-grade issues.*
(What we have said applies to a comparison of the leading growth
companies with the bulk of well-established concerns; we excludefrom our purview here those issues which are highly speculativebecause the businesses themselves are speculative.)
The argument made above should explain the often erratic price
behavior of our most successful and impressive enterprises. Our
favorite example is the monarch of them all—International Busi-
ness Machines. The price of its shares fell from 607 to 300 in sevenmonths in 1962–63; after two splits its price fell from 387 to 219 in
1970. Similarly, Xerox—an even more impressive earnings gainer
in recent decades—fell from 171 to 87 in 1962–63, and from 116 to65 in 1970. These striking losses did not indicate any doubt aboutthe future long-term growth of IBM or Xerox; they reflected insteada lack of confidence in the premium valuation that the stock mar-ket itself had placed on these excellent prospects.
The previous discussion leads us to a conclusion of practical
importance to the conservative investor in common stocks. If he isto pay some special attention to the selection of his portfolio, it
might be best for him to concentrate on issues selling at a reason-
ably close approximation to their tangible-asset value—say, at notmore than one-third above that figure. Purchases made at such 
levels, or lower, may with logic be regarded as related to theThe Investor and Market Fluctuations 199
* Graham’s use of the word “paradox” is probably an allusion to a classic
article by David Durand, “Growth Stocks and the Petersburg Paradox, ” The
Journal of Finance, vol. XII, no. 3, September, 1957 , pp. 348–363, which
compares investing in high-priced growth stocks to betting on a series ofcoin flips in which the payoff escalates with each flip of the coin. Durand
points out that if a growth stock could continue to grow at a high rate for 
an indefinite period of time, an investor should (in theory) be willing to payan infinite price for its shares. Why, then, has no stock ever sold for a 
price of infinity dollars per share? Because the higher the assumed future
growth rate, and the longer the time period over which it is expected, thewider the margin for error grows, and the higher the cost of even a tiny mis-calculation becomes. Graham discusses this problem further in Appendix 4(p. 570).company’s balance sheet, and as having a justification or support
independent of the fluctuating market prices. The premium over
book value that may be involved can be considered as a kind of
extra fee paid for the advantage of stock-exchange listing and themarketability that goes with it.
A caution is needed here. A stock does not become a sound
investment merely because it can be bought at close to its assetvalue. The investor should demand, in addition, a satisfactory ratio
of earnings to price, a sufficiently strong financial position, and the
prospect that its earnings will at least be maintained over the years.This may appear like demanding a lot from a modestly priced
stock, but the prescription is not hard to fill under all but danger-
ously high market conditions. Once the investor is willing to forgobrilliant prospects—i.e., better than average expected growth—hewill have no difficulty in finding a wide selection of issues meetingthese criteria.
In our chapters on the selection of common stocks (Chapters 14
and 15) we shall give data showing that more than half of the DJIAissues met our asset-value criterion at the end of 1970. The mostwidely held investment of all—American Tel. & Tel.—actually sells
below its tangible-asset value as we write. Most of the light-and-
power shares, in addition to their other advantages, are now (early1972) available at prices reasonably close to their asset values.
The investor with a stock portfolio having such book values
behind it can take a much more independent and detached view ofstock-market fluctuations than those who have paid high multipli-
ers of both earnings and tangible assets. As long as the earningpower of his holdings remains satisfactory, he can give as little
attention as he pleases to the vagaries of the stock market. More
than that, at times he can use these vagaries to play the master
game of buying low and selling high.
The A. & P . Example
At this point we shall introduce one of our original examples,
which dates back many years but which has a certain fascinationfor us because it combines so many aspects of corporate andinvestment experience. It involves the Great Atlantic & Pacific TeaCo. Here is the story:200 The Intelligent InvestorA. & P . shares were introduced to trading on the “Curb” market,
now the American Stock Exchange, in 1929 and sold as high as 494.
By 1932 they had declined to 104, although the company’s earnings
were nearly as large in that generally catastrophic year as previ-ously. In 1936 the range was between 111 and 131. Then in the busi-ness recession and bear market of 1938 the shares fell to a new lowof 36.
That price was extraordinary. It meant that the preferred and
common were together selling for $126 million, although the com-pany had just reported that it held $85 million in cash alone and aworking capital (or net current assets) of $134 million. A. & P . was
the largest retail enterprise in America, if not in the world, with a
continuous and impressive record of large earnings for manyyears. Yet in 1938 this outstanding business was considered onWall Street to be worth less than its current assets alone—whichmeans less as a going concern than if it were liquidated. Why?First, because there were threats of special taxes on chain stores;
second, because net profits had fallen off in the previous year; and,
third, because the general market was depressed. The first of thesereasons was an exaggerated and eventually groundless fear; the
other two were typical of temporary influences.
Let us assume that the investor had bought A. & P . common in
1937 at, say, 12 times its five-year average earnings, or about 80. Weare far from asserting that the ensuing decline to 36 was of no
importance to him. He would have been well advised to scrutinizethe picture with some care, to see whether he had made any mis-
calculations. But if the results of his study were reassuring—asthey should have been—he was entitled then to disregard the mar-
ket decline as a temporary vagary of finance, unless he had the
funds and the courage to take advantage of it by buying more on
the bargain basis offered.
Sequel and Reflections
The following year, 1939, A. & P . shares advanced to 117
1⁄2, or
three times the low price of 1938 and well above the average of
1937. Such a turnabout in the behavior of common stocks is by nomeans uncommon, but in the case of A. & P . it was more strikingthan most. In the years after 1949 the grocery chain’s shares roseThe Investor and Market Fluctuations 201with the general market until in 1961 the split-up stock (10 for 1)
reached a high of 701⁄2which was equivalent to 705 for the 1938
shares.
This price of 701⁄2was remarkable for the fact it was 30 times the
earnings of 1961. Such a price/earnings ratio—which compareswith 23 times for the DJIA in that year—must have implied expec-tations of a brilliant growth in earnings. This optimism had no jus-tification in the company’s earnings record in the preceding years,and it proved completely wrong. Instead of advancing rapidly, thecourse of earnings in the ensuing period was generally downward.The year after the 70
1⁄2high the price fell by more than half to 34.
But this time the shares did not have the bargain quality that they
showed at the low quotation in 1938. After varying sorts of fluctua-
tions the price fell to another low of 211⁄2in 1970 and 18 in 1972—
having reported the first quarterly deficit in its history.
We see in this history how wide can be the vicissitudes of a
major American enterprise in little more than a single generation,and also with what miscalculations and excesses of optimism andpessimism the public has valued its shares. In 1938 the businesswas really being given away, with no takers; in 1961 the public wasclamoring for the shares at a ridiculously high price. After thatcame a quick loss of half the market value, and some years later asubstantial further decline. In the meantime the company was toturn from an outstanding to a mediocre earnings performer; itsprofit in the boom-year 1968 was to be less than in 1958; it had paida series of confusing small stock dividends not warranted by thecurrent additions to surplus; and so forth. A. & P . was a larger com-
pany in 1961 and 1972 than in 1938, but not as well-run, not as
profitable, and not as attractive.*
There are two chief morals to this story. The first is that the stock
market often goes far wrong, and sometimes an alert and coura-202 The Intelligent Investor
* The more recent history of A & P is no different. At year-end 1999, its
share price was $27 .875; at year-end 2000, $7 .00; a year later, $23.78; atyear-end 2002, $8.06. Although some accounting irregularities later cameto light at A & P, it defies all logic to believe that the value of a relatively sta-ble business like groceries could fall by three-fourths in one year, triple thenext year, then drop by two-thirds the year after that.geous investor can take advantage of its patent errors. The other is
that most businesses change in character and quality over the
years, sometimes for the better, perhaps more often for the worse.
The investor need not watch his companies’ performance like ahawk; but he should give it a good, hard look from time to time.
Let us return to our comparison between the holder of mar-
ketable shares and the man with an interest in a private business.We have said that the former has the option of considering himself
merely as the part owner of the various businesses he has investedin, or as the holder of shares which are salable at any time hewishes at their quoted market price.
But note this important fact: The true investor scarcely ever is
forced to sell his shares, and at all other times he is free to disregard
the current price quotation. He need pay attention to it and actupon it only to the extent that it suits his book, and no more.* Thusthe investor who permits himself to be stampeded or unduly wor-ried by unjustified market declines in his holdings is perversely
transforming his basic advantage into a basic disadvantage. That
man would be better off if his stocks had no market quotation atall, for he would then be spared the mental anguish caused him by
other persons’ mistakes of judgment.†
Incidentally, a widespread situation of this kind actually existed
during the dark depression days of 1931–1933. There was then apsychological advantage in owning business interests that had no
quoted market. For example, people who owned first mortgageson real estate that continued to pay interest were able to tell them-
selves that their investments had kept their full value, there beingno market quotations to indicate otherwise. On the other hand,
many listed corporation bonds of even better quality and greaterThe Investor and Market Fluctuations 203
* “Only to the extent that it suits his book” means “only to the extent that the
price is favorable enough to justify selling the stock. ” In traditional brokerage
lingo, the “book” is an investor’s ledger of holdings and trades.
† This may well be the single most important paragraph in Graham’s entirebook. In these 113 words Graham sums up his lifetime of experience. Youcannot read these words too often; they are like Kryptonite for bear markets.If you keep them close at hand and let them guide you throughout yourinvesting life, you will survive whatever the markets throw at you.underlying strength suffered severe shrinkages in their market
quotations, thus making their owners believe they were growing
distinctly poorer. In reality the owners were better off with the
listed securities, despite the low prices of these. For if they hadwanted to, or were compelled to, they could at least have sold theissues—possibly to exchange them for even better bargains. Orthey could just as logically have ignored the market’s action astemporary and basically meaningless. But it is self-deception to tell
yourself that you have suffered no shrinkage in value merely
because your securities have no quoted market at all.
Returning to our A. & P . shareholder in 1938, we assert that as
long as he held on to his shares he suffered no loss in their price
decline, beyond what his own judgment may have told him wasoccasioned by a shrinkage in their underlying or intrinsic value. Ifno such shrinkage had occurred, he had a right to expect that indue course the market quotation would return to the 1937 level orbetter—as in fact it did the following year. In this respect his posi-
tion was at least as good as if he had owned an interest in a private
business with no quoted market for its shares. For in that case, too,he might or might not have been justified in mentally lopping off
part of the cost of his holdings because of the impact of the 1938
recession—depending on what had happened to his company.
Critics of the value approach to stock investment argue that
listed common stocks cannot properly be regarded or appraised inthe same way as an interest in a similar private enterprise, becausethe presence of an organized security market “injects into equity
ownership the new and extremely important attribute of liquidity.”But what this liquidity really means is, first, that the investor has
the benefit of the stock market’s daily and changing appraisal of
his holdings, for whatever that appraisal may be worth, and, second,
that the investor is able to increase or decrease his investment at
the market’s daily figure— if he chooses. Thus the existence of a
quoted market gives the investor certain options that he does not
have if his security is unquoted. But it does not impose the currentquotation on an investor who prefers to take his idea of value fromsome other source.
Let us close this section with something in the nature of a para-
ble. Imagine that in some private business you own a small sharethat cost you $1,000. One of your partners, named Mr. Market, is204 The Intelligent Investorvery obliging indeed. Every day he tells you what he thinks your
interest is worth and furthermore offers either to buy you out or to
sell you an additional interest on that basis. Sometimes his idea of
value appears plausible and justified by business developmentsand prospects as you know them. Often, on the other hand, Mr.Market lets his enthusiasm or his fears run away with him, and thevalue he proposes seems to you a little short of silly.
If you are a prudent investor or a sensible businessman, will you
let Mr. Market’s daily communication determine your view of thevalue of a $1,000 interest in the enterprise? Only in case you agreewith him, or in case you want to trade with him. You may be happy
to sell out to him when he quotes you a ridiculously high price,
and equally happy to buy from him when his price is low. But therest of the time you will be wiser to form your own ideas of thevalue of your holdings, based on full reports from the companyabout its operations and financial position.
The true investor is in that very position when he owns a listed
common stock. He can take advantage of the daily market price orleave it alone, as dictated by his own judgment and inclination. Hemust take cognizance of important price movements, for otherwise
his judgment will have nothing to work on. Conceivably they may
give him a warning signal which he will do well to heed—this inplain English means that he is to sell his shares because the price has
gone down, foreboding worse things to come. In our view such sig-nals are misleading at least as often as they are helpful. Basically,price fluctuations have only one significant meaning for the true
investor. They provide him with an opportunity to buy wiselywhen prices fall sharply and to sell wisely when they advance a
great deal. At other times he will do better if he forgets about the
stock market and pays attention to his dividend returns and to the
operating results of his companies.
Summary
The most realistic distinction between the investor and the spec-
ulator is found in their attitude toward stock-market movements.The speculator’s primary interest lies in anticipating and profitingfrom market fluctuations. The investor’s primary interest lies inacquiring and holding suitable securities at suitable prices. MarketThe Investor and Market Fluctuations 205movements are important to him in a practical sense, because they
alternately create low price levels at which he would be wise to
buy and high price levels at which he certainly should refrain from
buying and probably would be wise to sell.
It is far from certain that the typical investor should regularly
hold off buying until low market levels appear, because this mayinvolve a long wait, very likely the loss of income, and the possiblemissing of investment opportunities. On the whole it may be better
for the investor to do his stock buying whenever he has money to
put in stocks, except when the general market level is much higher
than can be justified by well-established standards of value. If he
wants to be shrewd he can look for the ever-present bargain oppor-
tunities in individual securities.
Aside from forecasting the movements of the general market,
much effort and ability are directed on Wall Street toward selecting
stocks or industrial groups that in matter of price will “do better”
than the rest over a fairly short period in the future. Logical as this
endeavor may seem, we do not believe it is suited to the needs or
temperament of the true investor—particularly since he would becompeting with a large number of stock-market traders and first-
class financial analysts who are trying to do the same thing. As 
in all other activities that emphasize price movements first andunderlying values second, the work of many intelligent minds con-
stantly engaged in this field tends to be self-neutralizing and self-
defeating over the years.
The investor with a portfolio of sound stocks should expect their
prices to fluctuate and should neither be concerned by sizable
declines nor become excited by sizable advances. He should
always remember that market quotations are there for his conve-
nience, either to be taken advantage of or to be ignored. He should
never buy a stock because it has gone up or sell one because it has
gone down. He would not be far wrong if this motto read more
simply: “Never buy a stock immediately after a substantial rise or
sell one immediately after a substantial drop.”
An Added Consideration
Something should be said about the significance of average mar-
ket prices as a measure of managerial competence. The shareholder206 The Intelligent Investorjudges whether his own investment has been successful in terms
both of dividends received and of the long-range trend of the aver-
age market value. The same criteria should logically be applied in
testing the effectiveness of a company’s management and thesoundness of its attitude toward the owners of the business.
This statement may sound like a truism, but it needs to be
emphasized. For as yet there is no accepted technique or approachby which management is brought to the bar of market opinion. On
the contrary, managements have always insisted that they have no
responsibility of any kind for what happens to the market value of
their shares. It is true, of course, that they are not accountable for
those fluctuations in price which, as we have been insisting, bear no
relationship to underlying conditions and values. But it is only the
lack of alertness and intelligence among the rank and file of share-holders that permits this immunity to extend to the entire realm ofmarket quotations, including the permanent establishment of adepreciated and unsatisfactory price level. Good managements
produce a good average market price, and bad managements pro-
duce bad market prices.*
Fluctuations in Bond Prices
The investor should be aware that even though safety of its prin-
cipal and interest may be unquestioned, a long-term bond could
vary widely in market price in response to changes in interest rates.
In Table 8-1 we give data for various years back to 1902 coveringyields for high-grade corporate and tax-free issues. As individual
illustrations we add the price fluctuations of two representative
railroad issues for a similar period. (These are the Atchison, Topeka& Santa Fe general mortgage 4s, due 1995, for generations one of
our premier noncallable bond issues, and the Northern Pacific Ry.
3s, due 2047—originally a 150-year maturity!—long a typical Baa-rated bond.)
Because of their inverse relationship the low yields correspond
to the high prices and vice versa. The decline in the NorthernThe Investor and Market Fluctuations 207
* Graham has much more to say on what is now known as “corporate gov-
ernance. ” See the commentary on Chapter 19.Pacific 3s in 1940 represented mainly doubts as to the safety of the
issue. It is extraordinary that the price recovered to an all-time high
in the next few years, and then lost two-thirds of its price chiefly
because of the rise in general interest rates. There have been star-tling variations, as well, in the price of even the highest-gradebonds in the past forty years.
Note that bond prices do not fluctuate in the same (inverse) pro-
portion as the calculated yields, because their fixed maturity value
of 100% exerts a moderating influence. However, for very long
maturities, as in our Northern Pacific example, prices and yieldschange at close to the same rate.
Since 1964 record movements in both directions have taken place
in the high-grade bond market. Taking “prime municipals” (tax-free) as an example, their yield more than doubled, from 3.2% inJanuary 1965 to 7% in June 1970. Their price index declined, corre-spondingly, from 110.8 to 67.5. In mid-1970 the yields on high-grade long-term bonds were higher than at any time in the nearly
200 years of this country’s economic history. * Twenty-five years earlier,
just before our protracted bull market began, bond yields were attheir lowest point in history; long-term municipals returned as little
as 1%, and industrials gave 2.40% compared with the 4
1⁄2to 5% for-
merly considered “normal.” Those of us with a long experience onWall Street had seen Newton’s law of “action and reaction, equal
and opposite” work itself out repeatedly in the stock market—the
most noteworthy example being the rise in the DJIA from 64 in1921 to 381 in 1929, followed by a record collapse to 41 in 1932. But
this time the widest pendulum swings took place in the usually
staid and slow-moving array of high-grade bond prices and yields.Moral: Nothing important on Wall Street can be counted on to
occur exactly in the same way as it happened before. This repre-208 The Intelligent Investor
* By what Graham called “the rule of opposites, ” in 2002 the yields on long-
term U.S. Treasury bonds hit their lowest levels since 1963. Since bond
yields move inversely to prices, those low yields meant that prices hadrisen—making investors most eager to buy just as bonds were at their mostexpensive and as their future returns were almost guaranteed to be low. Thisprovides another proof of Graham’s lesson that the intelligent investor mustrefuse to make decisions based on market fluctuations.1902 low
1920 high
1928 low
1932 high1946 low
1970 high
1971 closeS & P
AAA
Composite
4.31%
6.40
4.53
5.522.44
8.44
7.14S & P
Municipals
3.11%5.28
3.90
5.271.45
7.06
5.351905 high1920 low
1930 high
1932 low
1936 high
1939–40 low
1946 high1970 low
1971 closeA. T. & S. F.
4s, 1995
105
1⁄2
69
105
75
1171⁄4
991⁄2
141
5164Nor. Pac.
3s, 2047
79
49
1⁄2
73
463⁄4
851⁄4
311⁄2
943⁄4
323⁄4
371⁄4TABLE 8-1 Fluctuations in Bond Yields, and in Prices of Two Representative Bond Issues, 1902–1970
Bond Yields Bond Pricessents the first half of our favorite dictum: “ The more it changes, the
more it’s the same thing.”
If it is virtually impossible to make worthwhile predictions
about the price movements of stocks, it is completely impossible to
do so for bonds.* In the old days, at least, one could often find auseful clue to the coming end of a bull or bear market by studyingthe prior action of bonds, but no similar clues were given to a com-ing change in interest rates and bond prices. Hence the investor
must choose between long-term and short-term bond investments
on the basis chiefly of his personal preferences. If he wants to becertain that the market values will not decrease, his best choices are
probably U.S. savings bonds, Series E or H, which were described
above, p. 93. Either issue will give him a 5% yield (after the firstyear), the Series E for up to 5
5⁄6years, the Series H for up to ten
years, with a guaranteed resale value of cost or better.
If the investor wants the 7.5% now available on good long-term
corporate bonds, or the 5.3% on tax-free municipals, he must beprepared to see them fluctuate in price. Banks and insurance com-panies have the privilege of valuing high-rated bonds of this typeon the mathematical basis of “amortized cost,” which disregardsmarket prices; it would not be a bad idea for the individualinvestor to do something similar.
The price fluctuations of convertible bonds and preferred stocks
are the resultant of three different factors: (1) variations in the 
price of the related common stock, (2) variations in the creditstanding of the company, and (3) variations in general interest
rates. A good many of the convertible issues have been sold by
companies that have credit ratings well below the best.
3Some of
these were badly affected by the financial squeeze in 1970. As aresult, convertible issues as a whole have been subjected to triply
unsettling influences in recent years, and price variations havebeen unusually wide. In the typical case, therefore, the investor
would delude himself if he expected to find in convertible issues
that ideal combination of the safety of a high-grade bond and price210 The Intelligent Investor
* An updated analysis for today’s readers, explaining recent yields and the
wider variety of bonds and bond funds available today, can be found in thecommentary on Chapter 4.protection plus a chance to benefit from an advance in the price of
the common.
This may be a good place to make a suggestion about the “long-
term bond of the future.” Why should not the effects of changinginterest rates be divided on some practical and equitable basisbetween the borrower and the lender? One possibility would be tosell long-term bonds with interest payments that vary with anappropriate index of the going rate. The main results of such an
arrangement would be: (1) the investor’s bond would always have
a principal value of about 100, if the company maintains its creditrating, but the interest received will vary, say, with the rate offered
on conventional new issues; (2) the corporation would have the
advantages of long-term debt—being spared problems and costs offrequent renewals of refinancing—but its interest costs wouldchange from year to year.
4
Over the past decade the bond investor has been confronted by
an increasingly serious dilemma: Shall he choose complete stability
of principal value, but with varying and usually low (short-term)
interest rates? Or shall he choose a fixed-interest income, with considerable variations (usually downward, it seems) in his princi-
pal value? It would be good for most investors if they could 
compromise between these extremes, and be assured that neithertheir interest return nor their principal value will fall below a
stated minimum over, say, a 20-year period. This could be
arranged, without great difficulty, in an appropriate bond contractof a new form. Important note: In effect the U.S. government hasdone a similar thing in its combination of the original savings-bonds contracts with their extensions at higher interest rates. Thesuggestion we make here would cover a longer fixed investment
period than the savings bonds, and would introduce more flexibil-
ity in the interest-rate provisions.*
It is hardly worthwhile to talk about nonconvertible preferred
stocks, since their special tax status makes the safe ones much moredesirable holdings by corporations—e.g., insurance companies—The Investor and Market Fluctuations 211
* As mentioned in the commentary on Chapters 2 and 4, Treasury Inflation-
Protected Securities, or TIPS, are a new and improved version of what Gra-ham is suggesting here.than by individuals. The poorer-quality ones almost always fluctu-
ate over a wide range, percentagewise, not too differently from
common stocks. We can offer no other useful remark about them.
Table 16-2 below, p. 406, gives some information on the pricechanges of lower-grade nonconvertible preferreds between Decem-ber 1968 and December 1970. The average decline was 17%, against11.3% for the S & P composite index of common stocks.212 The Intelligent InvestorCOMMENTARY ON C HAPTER 8
The happiness of those who want to be popular depends on
others; the happiness of those who seek pleasure fluctuates
with moods outside their control; but the happiness of the wisegrows out of their own free acts.
—Marcus Aurelius
DR. JEKYLL AND MR. MARKET
Most of the time, the market is mostly accurate in pricing most stocks.
Millions of buyers and sellers haggling over price do a remarkablygood job of valuing companies—on average. But sometimes, the priceis not right; occasionally, it is very wrong indeed. And at such times,you need to understand Graham’s image of Mr. Market, probably 
the most brilliant metaphor ever created for explaining how stocks 
can become mispriced.
1The manic-depressive Mr. Market does not
always price stocks the way an appraiser or a private buyer wouldvalue a business. Instead, when stocks are going up, he happily paysmore than their objective value; and, when they are going down, he isdesperate to dump them for less than their true worth.
Is Mr. Market still around? Is he still bipolar? You bet he is.On March 17 , 2000, the stock of Inktomi Corp. hit a new high of
$231.625. Since they first came on the market in June 1998, shares in the Internet-searching software company had gained roughly1,900%. Just in the few weeks since December 1999, the stock had
nearly tripled.
What was going on at Inktomi the business that could make Inktomi
the stock so valuable? The answer seems obvious: phenomenally fast
2131See Graham’s text, pp. 204–205.growth. In the three months ending in December 1999, Inktomi sold
$36 million in products and services, more than it had in the entireyear ending in December 1998. If Inktomi could sustain its growthrate of the previous 12 months for just five more years, its revenueswould explode from $36 million a quarter to $5 billion a month. With
such growth in sight, the faster the stock went up, the farther up itseemed certain to go.
But in his wild love affair with Inktomi’s stock, Mr. Market was over-
looking something about its business. The company was losingmoney—lots of it. It had lost $6 million in the most recent quarter, $24
million in the 12 months before that, and $24 million in the year beforethat. In its entire corporate lifetime, Inktomi had never made a dime inprofits. Yet, on March 17 , 2000, Mr. Market valued this tiny business ata total of $25 billion. (Yes, that’s billion, with a B.)
And then Mr. Market went into a sudden, nightmarish depression.
On September 30, 2002, just two and a half years after hitting$231.625 per share, Inktomi’s stock closed at 25 cents—collapsing
from a total market value of $25 billion to less than $40 million. HadInktomi’s business dried up? Not at all; over the previous 12 months,
the company had generated $113 million in revenues. So what had
changed? Only Mr. Market’s mood: In early 2000, investors were so wild about the Internet that they priced Inktomi’s shares at 250
times the company’s revenues. Now, however, they would pay only
0.35 times its revenues. Mr. Market had morphed from Dr. Jekyll to Mr.Hyde and was ferociously trashing every stock that had made a fool
out of him.
But Mr. Market was no more justified in his midnight rage than he
had been in his manic euphoria. On December 23, 2002, Yahoo! Inc.announced that it would buy Inktomi for $1.65 per share. That was
nearly seven times Inktomi’s stock price on September 30. History willprobably show that Yahoo! got a bargain. When Mr. Market makes
stocks so cheap, it’s no wonder that entire companies get bought
right out from under him.
2214 Commentary on Chapter 8
2As Graham noted in a classic series of articles in 1932, the Great Depres-
sion caused the shares of dozens of companies to drop below the value of
their cash and other liquid assets, making them “worth more dead thanalive. ”THINK FOR YOURSELF
Would you willingly allow a certifiable lunatic to come by at least five
times a week to tell you that you should feel exactly the way he feels?Would you ever agree to be euphoric just because he is—or miserablejust because he thinks you should be? Of course not. You’d insist onyour right to take control of your own emotional life, based on your
experiences and your beliefs. But, when it comes to their financial
lives, millions of people let Mr. Market tell them how to feel and what todo—despite the obvious fact that, from time to time, he can get nuttier
than a fruitcake.
In 1999, when Mr. Market was squealing with delight, American
employees directed an average of 8.6% of their paychecks into their
401(k) retirement plans. By 2002, after Mr. Market had spent threeyears stuffing stocks into black garbage bags, the average contribu-tion rate had dropped by nearly one-quarter, to just 7%.
3The cheaper
stocks got, the less eager people became to buy them—because theywere imitating Mr. Market, instead of thinking for themselves.
The intelligent investor shouldn’t ignore Mr. Market entirely. Instead,
you should do business with him—but only to the extent that it servesyour interests. Mr. Market’s job is to provide you with prices; your job
is to decide whether it is to your advantage to act on them. You do not
have to trade with him just because he constantly begs you to.
By refusing to let Mr. Market be your master, you transform him into
your servant. After all, even when he seems to be destroying values,he is creating them elsewhere. In 1999, the Wilshire 5000 index—the
broadest measure of U.S. stock performance—gained 23.8%, pow-
ered by technology and telecommunications stocks. But 3,743 of the
7 ,234 stocks in the Wilshire index went down in value even as theaverage was rising. While those high-tech and telecom stocks were
hotter than the hood of a race car on an August afternoon, thousands
of “Old Economy” shares were frozen in the mud—getting cheaper andcheaper.
The stock of CMGI, an “incubator” or holding company for InternetCommentary on Chapter 8 215
3News release, The Spectrem Group, “Plan Sponsors Are Losing the Battle
to Prevent Declining Participation and Deferrals into Defined Contribution
Plans, ” October 25, 2002.Final value
of $1,000
invested
Company Business 1999 2000 2001 2002 1/1/1999
Angelica industrial uniforms –43.7 1.8 19.3 94.1 1,328
Ball Corp. metal & plastic packaging –12.7 19.2 55.3 46.0 2,359
Checkers Drive-In Restaurants fast food –45.5 63.9 66.2 2.1 1,517
Family Dollar Stores discount retailer –25.1 33.0 41.1 5.0 1,476
International Game Technology gambling equipment –16.3 136.1 42.3 11.2 3,127
J B Hunt Transportation trucking –39.1 21.9 38.0 26.3 1,294
Jos. A. Bank Clothiers apparel –62.5 50.0 57.1 201.6 2,665
Lockheed Martin defense & aerospace –46.9 58.0 39.0 24.7 1,453
Pier 1 Imports home furnishings –33.2 63.9 70.5 10.3 2,059
UST Inc. snuff tobacco –23.5 21.6 32.2 1.0 1,241
Wilshire Internet Index 139.1 –55.5 –46.2 –45.0 315
Wilshire 5000 index (total stock market) 23.8 –10.9 –11.0 –20.8 778
Sources: Aronson + Johnson + Ortiz, L.P .; www.wilshire.comTotal ReturnFIGURE 8-1 From Stinkers to Starsstart-up firms, went up an astonishing 939.9% in 1999. Meanwhile, Berk-
shire Hathaway—the holding company through which Graham’s greatestdisciple, Warren Buffett, owns such Old Economy stalwarts as Coca-Cola, Gillette, and the Washington Post Co.—dropped by 24.9%.
4
But then, as it so often does, the market had a sudden mood
swing. Figure 8-1 offers a sampling of how the stinkers of 1999 be-
came the stars of 2000 through 2002.
As for those two holding companies, CMGI went on to lose 96% in
2000, another 70.9% in 2001, and still 39.8% more in 2002—a cumulativeloss of 99.3%. Berkshire Hathaway went up 26.6% in 2000 and 6.5% in2001, then had a slight 3.8% loss in 2002—a cumulative gain of 30%.
CAN YOU BEAT THE PROS AT THEIR OWN GAME?
One of Graham’s most powerful insights is this: “The investor who
permits himself to be stampeded or unduly worried by unjustified mar-
ket declines in his holdings is perversely transforming his basic advan-tage into a basic disadvantage. ”
What does Graham mean by those words “basic advantage”? He
means that the intelligent individual investor has the full freedom tochoose whether or not to follow Mr. Market. You have the luxury of
being able to think for yourself.
5Commentary on Chapter 8 217
4A few months later, on March 10, 2000—the very day that NASDAQ hit its all-
time high—online trading pundit James J. Cramer wrote that he had “repeat-
edly” been tempted in recent days to sell Berkshire Hathaway short, a bet that
Buffett’s stock had farther to fall. With a vulgar thrust of his rhetorical pelvis,Cramer even declared that Berkshire’s shares were “ripe for the banging. ” That
same day, market strategist Ralph Acampora of Prudential Securities asked,
“Norfolk Southern or Cisco Systems: Where do you want to be in the future?”Cisco, a key to tomorrow’s Internet superhighway, seemed to have it all overNorfolk Southern, part of yesterday’s railroad system. (Over the next year, Nor-
folk Southern gained 35%, while Cisco lost 70%.)
5When asked what keeps most individual investors from succeeding, Gra-
ham had a concise answer: “The primary cause of failure is that they pay too
much attention to what the stock market is doing currently. ” See “BenjaminGraham: Thoughts on Security Analysis” [transcript of lecture at NortheastMissouri State University Business School, March, 1972], Financial History
magazine, no. 42, March, 1991, p. 8.The typical money manager, however, has no choice but to mimic Mr.
Market’s every move—buying high, selling low, marching almost mind-
lessly in his erratic footsteps. Here are some of the handicaps mutual-fund managers and other professional investors are saddled with:
• With billions of dollars under management, they must gravitate
toward the biggest stocks—the only ones they can buy in the 
multimillion-dollar quantities they need to fill their portfolios. Thus
many funds end up owning the same few overpriced giants.
• Investors tend to pour more money into funds as the market rises.
The managers use that new cash to buy more of the stocks theyalready own, driving prices to even more dangerous heights.
• If fund investors ask for their money back when the market drops,
the managers may need to sell stocks to cash them out. Just as
the funds are forced to buy stocks at inflated prices in a risingmarket, they become forced sellers as stocks get cheap again.
• Many portfolio managers get bonuses for beating the market, so
they obsessively measure their returns against benchmarks likethe S & P 500 index. If a company gets added to an index, hun-dreds of funds compulsively buy it. (If they don’t, and that stock
then does well, the managers look foolish; on the other hand, if
they buy it and it does poorly, no one will blame them.)
• Increasingly, fund managers are expected to specialize. Just as in
medicine the general practitioner has given way to the pediatricallergist and the geriatric otolaryngologist, fund managers mustbuy only “small growth” stocks, or only “mid-sized value” stocks,
or nothing but “large blend” stocks.
6If a company gets too big, or
too small, or too cheap, or an itty bit too expensive, the fund has
to sell it—even if the manager loves the stock.
So there’s no reason you can’t do as well as the pros. What you
cannot do (despite all the pundits who say you can) is to “beat thepros at their own game. ” The pros can’t even win their own game!
Why should you want to play it at all? If you follow their rules, you will
lose—since you will end up as much a slave to Mr. Market as the pro-
fessionals are.218 Commentary on Chapter 8
6Never mind what these terms mean, or are supposed to mean. While in
public these classifications are treated with the utmost respect, in private
most people in the investment business regard them with the contempt nor-mally reserved for jokes that aren’t funny.Instead, recognize that investing intelligently is about controlling
the controllable. You can’t control whether the stocks or funds you buy
will outperform the market today, next week, this month, or this year; inthe short run, your returns will always be hostage to Mr. Market andhis whims. But you cancontrol:
•your brokerage costs, by trading rarely, patiently, and cheaply
•your ownership costs, by refusing to buy mutual funds with
excessive annual expenses
•your expectations, by using realism, not fantasy, to forecast your
returns
7
•your risk, by deciding how much of your total assets to put at
hazard in the stock market, by diversifying, and by rebalancing
•your tax bills, by holding stocks for at least one year and, when-
ever possible, for at least five years, to lower your capital-gains lia-
bility
• and, most of all, your own behavior.
If you listen to financial TV, or read most market columnists, you’d
think that investing is some kind of sport, or a war, or a struggle forsurvival in a hostile wilderness. But investing isn’t about beating oth-
ers at their game. It’s about controlling yourself at your own game.The challenge for the intelligent investor is not to find the stocks thatwill go up the most and down the least, but rather to prevent yourself
from being your own worst enemy—from buying high just because Mr.
Market says “Buy!” and from selling low just because Mr. Market says“Sell!”
If you investment horizon is long—at least 25 or 30 years—there is
only one sensible approach: Buy every month, automatically, andwhenever else you can spare some money. The single best choice for
this lifelong holding is a total stock-market index fund. Sell only when
you need the cash (for a psychological boost, clip out and sign your“Investment Owner’s Contract”—which you can find on p. 225).
To be an intelligent investor, you must also refuse to judge your
financial success by how a bunch of total strangers are doing. You’renot one penny poorer if someone in Dubuque or Dallas or DenverCommentary on Chapter 8 219
7See the brilliant column by Walter Updegrave, “Keep It Real, ” Money, Feb-
ruary, 2002, pp. 53–56.beats the S & P 500 and you don’t. No one’s gravestone reads “HE
BEAT THE MARKET. ”
I once interviewed a group of retirees in Boca Raton, one of
Florida’s wealthiest retirement communities. I asked these people—
mostly in their seventies—if they had beaten the market over theirinvesting lifetimes. Some said yes, some said no; most weren’t sure.Then one man said, “Who cares? All I know is, my investments earned
enough for me to end up in Boca. ”
Could there be a more perfect answer? After all, the whole point of
investing is not to earn more money than average, but to earn enough
money to meet your own needs. The best way to measure your invest-ing success is not by whether you’re beating the market but bywhether you’ve put in place a financial plan and a behavioral disciplinethat are likely to get you where you want to go. In the end, what mat-ters isn’t crossing the finish line before anybody else but just makingsure that you do cross it.
8
YOUR MONEY AND YOUR BRAIN
Why, then, do investors find Mr. Market so seductive? It turns out thatour brains are hardwired to get us into investing trouble; humans arepattern-seeking animals. Psychologists have shown that if you present
people with a random sequence—and tell them that it’s unpre-
dictable—they will nevertheless insist on trying to guess what’s comingnext. Likewise, we “know” that the next roll of the dice will be a seven,
that a baseball player is due for a base hit, that the next winning num-
ber in the Powerball lottery will definitely be 4-27-9-16-42-10—andthat this hot little stock is the next Microsoft.
Groundbreaking new research in neuroscience shows that our
brains are designed to perceive trends even where they might notexist. After an event occurs just two or three times in a row, regions of
the human brain called the anterior cingulate and nucleus accumbens
automatically anticipate that it will happen again. If it does repeat, anatural chemical called dopamine is released, flooding your brain with
a soft euphoria. Thus, if a stock goes up a few times in a row, youreflexively expect it to keep going—and your brain chemistry changes220 Commentary on Chapter 8
8See Jason Zweig, “Did You Beat the Market?” Money, January, 2000, pp.
55–58.as the stock rises, giving you a “natural high. ” You effectively become
addicted to your own predictions.
But when stocks drop, that financial loss fires up your amygdala—
the part of the brain that processes fear and anxiety and generates the
famous “fight or flight” response that is common to all cornered ani-mals. Just as you can’t keep your heart rate from rising if a fire alarmgoes off, just as you can’t avoid flinching if a rattlesnake slithers onto
your hiking path, you can’t help feeling fearful when stock prices are
plunging.
9
In fact, the brilliant psychologists Daniel Kahneman and Amos Tver-
sky have shown that the pain of financial loss is more than twice asintense as the pleasure of an equivalent gain. Making $1,000 on astock feels great—but a $1,000 loss wields an emotional wallop morethan twice as powerful. Losing money is so painful that many people,terrified at the prospect of any further loss, sell out near the bottom orrefuse to buy more.
That helps explain why we fixate on the raw magnitude of a market
decline and forget to put the loss in proportion. So, if a TV reporterhollers, “The market is plunging —the Dow is down 100 points! ” most
people instinctively shudder. But, at the Dow’s recent level of 8,000,that’s a drop of just 1.2%. Now think how ridiculous it would sound if,on a day when it’s 81 degrees outside, the TV weatherman shrieked,
“The temperature is plunging —it’s dropped from 81 degrees to80
degrees! ” That, too, is a 1.2% drop. When you forget to view chang-
ing market prices in percentage terms, it’s all too easy to panic overminor vibrations. (If you have decades of investing ahead of you,
there’s a better way to visualize the financial news broadcasts; see thesidebar on p. 222.)
In the late 1990s, many people came to feel that they were in the
dark unless they checked the prices of their stocks several times aday. But, as Graham puts it, the typical investor “would be better off if
his stocks had no market quotation at all, for he would then be spared
the mental anguish caused him by other persons’ mistakes of judg-Commentary on Chapter 8 221
9The neuroscience of investing is explored in Jason Zweig, “Are You Wired 
for Wealth?” Money, October, 2002, pp. 74–83, also available at http://
money.cnn.com/2002/09/25/pf/investing/agenda_brain _short/index.htm. See
also Jason Zweig, “The Trouble with Humans, ” Money, November, 2000, pp.
67–70.222 Commentary on Chapter 8
NEWS YOU COULD USE
Stocks are crashing, so you turn on the television to catch the
latest market news. But instead of CNBC or CNN, imagine thatyou can tune in to the Benjamin Graham Financial Network. On
BGFN, the audio doesn’t capture that famous sour clang of the
market’s closing bell; the video doesn’t home in on brokersscurrying across the floor of the stock exchange like angryrodents. Nor does BGFN run any footage of investors gaspingon frozen sidewalks as red arrows whiz overhead on electronicstock tickers.
Instead, the image that fills your TV screen is the facade of
the New York Stock Exchange, festooned with a huge bannerreading: “SALE! 50% OFF!” As intro music, Bachman-Turner
Overdrive can be heard blaring a few bars of their old barn-
burner, “You Ain’t Seen Nothin’ Yet. ” Then the anchormanannounces brightly, “Stocks became more attractive yet again
today, as the Dow dropped another 2.5% on heavy volume—the
fourth day in a row that stocks have gotten cheaper. Tech
investors fared even better, as leading companies like Microsoft
lost nearly 5% on the day, making them even more affordable.
That comes on topof the good news of the past year, in which
stocks have already lost50%, putting them at bargain levels not
seen in years. Andsome prominent analysts are optimistic that
prices may drop still further in the weeks and months to come. ”
The newscast cuts over to market strategist Ignatz Anderson
of the Wall Street firm of Ketchum & Skinner, who says, “Myforecast is for stocks to lose another 15% by June. I’m cau-
tiously optimistic that if everything goes well, stocks could lose
25%, maybe more. ”
“Let’s hope Ignatz Anderson is right, ” the anchor says cheer-
ily. “Falling stock prices would be fabulous news for any
investor with a very long horizon. And now over to Wally Wood
for our exclusive AccuWeather forecast. ”ment. ” If, after checking the value of your stock portfolio at 1:24 P.M.,
you feel compelled to check it all over again at 1:37 P.M., ask yourself
these questions:
• Did I call a real-estate agent to check the market price of my
house at 1:24 P.M.? Did I call back at 1:37 P.M.?
• If I had, would the price have changed? If it did, would I have
rushed to sell my house?
• By not checking, or even knowing, the market price of my house
from minute to minute, do I prevent its value from rising over time?10
The only possible answer to these questions is of course not! And
you should view your portfolio the same way. Over a 10- or 20- or 30-
year investment horizon, Mr. Market’s daily dipsy-doodles simply do notmatter. In any case, for anyone who will be investing for years to come,falling stock prices are good news, not bad, since they enable you tobuy more for less money. The longer and further stocks fall, and themore steadily you keep buying as they drop, the more money you will
make in the end— ifyou remain steadfast until the end. Instead of fear-
ing a bear market, you should embrace it. The intelligent investor
should be perfectly comfortable owning a stock or mutual fund even if
the stock market stopped supplying daily prices for the next 10 years.
11
Paradoxically, “you will be much more in control, ” explains neurosci-
entist Antonio Damasio, “if you realize how much you are not in con-
trol. ” By acknowledging your biological tendency to buy high and selllow, you can admit the need to dollar-cost average, rebalance, and
sign an investment contract. By putting much of your portfolio on per-
manent autopilot, you can fight the prediction addiction, focus on yourlong-term financial goals, and tune out Mr. Market’s mood swings.Commentary on Chapter 8 223
10It’s also worth asking whether you could enjoy living in your house if its
market price was reported to the last penny every day in the newspapers
and on TV.
11In a series of remarkable experiments in the late 1980s, a psychologist at
Columbia and Harvard, Paul Andreassen, showed that investors who
received frequent news updates on their stocks earned half the returns ofinvestors who got no news at all. See Jason Zweig, “Here’s How to Use theNews and Tune Out the Noise, ” Money, July, 1998, pp. 63–64.WHEN MR. MARKET GIVES YOU LEMONS,
MAKE LEMONADE
Although Graham teaches that you should buy when Mr. Market is
yelling “sell, ” there’s one exception the intelligent investor needs tounderstand. Selling into a bear market can make sense if it creates a
tax windfall. The U.S. Internal Revenue Code allows you to use your
realized losses (any declines in value that you lock in by selling your
shares) to offset up to $3,000 in ordinary income.
12Let’s say you
bought 200 shares of Coca-Cola stock in January 2000 for $60 ashare—a total investment of $12,000. By year-end 2002, the stockwas down to $44 a share, or $8,800 for your lot—a loss of $3,200.
You could have done what most people do—either whine about
your loss, or sweep it under the rug and pretend it never happened.
Or you could have taken control. Before 2002 ended, you could have
sold all your Coke shares, locking in the $3,200 loss. Then, after wait-ing 31 days to comply with IRS rules, you would buy 200 shares of
Coke all over again. The result: You would be able to reduce your tax-
able income by $3,000 in 2002, and you could use the remaining$200 loss to offset your income in 2003. And better yet, you would
still own a company whose future you believe in—but now you would
own it for almost one-third less than you paid the first time.
13
With Uncle Sam subsidizing your losses, it can make sense to sell
and lock in a loss. If Uncle Sam wants to make Mr. Market look logicalby comparison, who are we to complain?224 Commentary on Chapter 8
12Federal tax law is subject to constant change. The example of Coca-Cola
stock given here is valid under the provisions of the U.S. tax code as it stood
in early 2003.
13This example assumes that the investor had no realized capital gains in
2002 and did not reinvest any Coke dividends. Tax swaps are not to beundertaken lightly, since they can be mishandled easily. Before doing a tax
swap, read IRS Publication 550 (www.irs.gov/pub/irspdf/p550.pdf). Agood guide to managing your investment taxes is Robert N. Gordon withJan M. Rosen, Wall Street Secrets for Tax-Efficient Investing (Bloomberg
Press, Princeton, New Jersey, 2001). Finally, before you pull the trigger, con-sult a professional tax adviser.INVESTMENT OWNER’S CONTRACT
I, _____________ ___________________, hereby state that I am an investor
who is seeking to accumulate wealth for many years into the future.
I know that there will be many times when I will be tempted to invest in
stocks or bonds because they have gone (or “are going”) up in price, andother times when I will be tempted to sell my investments because they have
gone (or “are going”) down.
I hereby declare my refusal to let a herd of strangers make my financial
decisions for me. I further make a solemn commitment never to investbecause the stock market has gone up, and never to sell because it hasgone down. Instead, I will invest $______.00 per month, every month,through an automatic investment plan or “dollar-cost averaging program, ”
into the following mutual fund(s) or diversified portfolio(s):
_________________________________,_________________________________,_________________________________.
I will also invest additional amounts whenever I can afford to spare the
cash (and can afford to lose it in the short run).
I hereby declare that I will hold each of these investments continually
through at least the following date (which must be a minimum of 10 years
after the date of this contact): _________________ _____, 20__. The only
exceptions allowed under the terms of this contract are a sudden, pressing
need for cash, like a health-care emergency or the loss of my job, or aplanned expenditure like a housing down payment or a tuition bill.
I am, by signing below, stating my intention not only to abide by the terms
of this contract, but to re-read this document whenever I am tempted to sellany of my investments.
This contract is valid only when signed by at least one witness, and must
be kept in a safe place that is easily accessible for future reference.
Signed: Date:
_____________ ___________________   _______________ ____, 20__Witnesses:_____________ ________________________________ ___________________CHAPTER 9
Investing in Investment Funds
One course open to the defensive investor is to put his money
into investment-company shares. Those that are redeemable on
demand by the holder, at net asset value, are commonly known as“mutual funds” (or “open-end funds”). Most of these are activelyselling additional shares through a corps of salesmen. Those with
nonredeemable shares are called “closed-end” companies or funds;
the number of their shares remains relatively constant. All of thefunds of any importance are registered with the Securities &
Exchange Commission (SEC), and are subject to its regulations and
controls.*
The industry is a very large one. At the end of 1970 there were
383 funds registered with the SEC, having assets totaling $54.6 bil-lions. Of these 356 companies, with $50.6 billions, were mutualfunds, and 27 companies with $4.0 billions, were closed-end.†
There are different ways of classifying the funds. One is by the
broad division of their portfolio; they are “balanced funds” if theyhave a significant (generally about one-third) component of bonds,
or “stock-funds” if their holdings are nearly all common stocks.
(There are some other varieties here, such as “bond funds,” “hedge
226* It is a violation of Federal law for an open-end mutual fund, a closed-end
fund, or an exchange-traded fund to sell shares to the public unless it has
“registered” (or made mandatory financial filings) with the SEC.
† The fund industry has gone from “very large” to immense. At year-end2002, there were 8,279 mutual funds holding $6.56 trillion; 514 closed-endfunds with $149.6 billion in assets; and 116 exchange-trade funds or ETFswith $109.7 billion. These figures exclude such fund-like investments asvariable annuities and unit investment trusts.funds,” “letter-stock funds,” etc.)* Another is by their objectives, as
their primary aim is for income, price stability, or capital apprecia-
tion (“growth”). Another distinction is by their method of sale.
“Load funds” add a selling charge (generally about 9% of assetvalue on minimum purchases) to the value before charge.
1Others,
known as “no-load” funds, make no such charge; the manage-
ments are content with the usual investment-counsel fees for han-
dling the capital. Since they cannot pay salesmen’s commissions,the size of the no-load funds tends to be on the low side.† The buy-ing and selling prices of the closed-end funds are not fixed by the
companies, but fluctuate in the open market as does the ordinarycorporate stock.
Most of the companies operate under special provisions of the
income-tax law, designed to relieve the shareholders from doubletaxation on their earnings. In effect, the funds must pay out vir-
tually all their ordinary income—i.e., dividends and interest
received, less expenses. In addition they can pay out their realizedlong-term profits on sales of investments—in the form of “capital-gains dividends”—which are treated by the shareholder as if theywere his own security profits. (There is another option here, whichwe omit to avoid clutter.)‡ Nearly all the funds have but one classInvesting in Investment Funds 227
* Lists of the major types of mutual funds can be found at www.ici.org/
pdf/g2understanding.pdf and http://news.morningstar.com/fundReturns/
CategoryReturns.html. Letter-stock funds no longer exist, while hedge funds
are generally banned by SEC rules from selling shares to any investorwhose annual income is below $200,000 or whose net worth is below $1
million.
† Today, the maximum sales load on a stock fund tends to be around 5.75%.If you invest $10,000 in a fund with a flat 5.75% sales load, $575 will go to
the person (and brokerage firm) that sold it to you, leaving you with an initial
net investment of $9,425. The $575 sales charge is actually 6.1% of thatamount, which is why Graham calls the standard way of calculating the
charge a “sales gimmick. ” Since the 1980s, no-load funds have become
popular, and they no longer tend to be smaller than load funds.‡ Nearly every mutual fund today is taxed as a “regulated investment company, ”or RIC, which is exempt from corporate income tax so long as it pays out essentially all of its income to its shareholders. In the “option” thatof security outstanding. A new wrinkle, introduced in 1967, divides
the capitalization into a preferred issue, which will receive all the
ordinary income, and a capital issue, or common stock, which will
receive all the profits on security sales. (These are called “dual-purpose funds.”)*
Many of the companies that state their primary aim is for capital
gains concentrate on the purchase of the so-called “growth stocks,”and they often have the word “growth” in their name. Some spe-
cialize in a designated area such as chemicals, aviation, overseas
investments; this is usually indicated in their titles.
The investor who wants to make an intelligent commitment in
fund shares has thus a large and somewhat bewildering variety ofchoices before him—not too different from those offered in directinvestment. In this chapter we shall deal with some major ques-tions, viz:
1. Is there any way by which the investor can assure himself of
better than average results by choosing the right funds? (Subques-
tion: What about the “performance funds”?)†
2. If not, how can he avoid choosing funds that will give him
worse than average results?
3. Can he make intelligent choices between different types of
funds—e.g., balanced versus all-stock, open-end versus closed-
end, load versus no-load?228 The Intelligent Investor
Graham omits “to avoid clutter, ” a fund can ask the SEC for special permis-
sion to distribute one of its holdings directly to the fund’s shareholders—as 
his Graham-Newman Corp. did in 1948, parceling out shares in GEICO toGraham-Newman’s own investors. This sort of distribution is extraordinarily rare.
* Dual-purpose funds, popular in the late 1980s, have essentially disap-
peared from the marketplace—a shame, since they offered investors a moreflexible way to take advantage of the skills of great stock pickers like John
Neff. Perhaps the recent bear market will lead to a renaissance of this
attractive investment vehicle.† “Performance funds” were all the rage in the late 1960s. They were equiv-alent to the aggressive growth funds of the late 1990s, and served theirinvestors no better.Investment-Fund Performance as a Whole
Before trying to answer these questions we should say some-
thing about the performance of the fund industry as a whole. Has
it done a good job for its shareholders? In the most general way,how have fund investors fared as against those who made theirinvestments directly? We are quite certain that the funds in the
aggregate have served a useful purpose. They have promotedgood habits of savings and investment; they have protected count-
less individuals against costly mistakes in the stock market; they
have brought their participants income and profits commensuratewith the overall returns from common stocks. On a comparativebasis we would hazard the guess that the average individual whoput his money exclusively in investment-fund shares in the pastten years has fared better than the average person who made his
common-stock purchases directly.
The last point is probably true even though the actual perfor-
mance of the funds seems to have been no better than that of com-mon stocks as a whole, and even though the cost of investing in
mutual funds may have been greater than that of direct purchases.The real choice of the average individual has not been between
constructing and acquiring a well-balanced common-stock portfo-
lio or doing the same thing, a bit more expensively, by buying intothe funds. More likely his choice has been between succumbing to
the wiles of the doorbell-ringing mutual-fund salesman on the one
hand, as against succumbing to the even wilier and much moredangerous peddlers of second- and third-rate new offerings. Wecannot help thinking, too, that the average individual who opens abrokerage account with the idea of making conservative common-stock investments is likely to find himself beset by untoward influ-
ences in the direction of speculation and speculative losses; these
temptations should be much less for the mutual-fund buyer.
But how have the investment funds performed as against the
general market? This is a somewhat controversial subject, but weshall try to deal with it in simple but adequate fashion. Table 9-1gives some calculated results for 1961–1970 of our ten largest stockfunds at the end of 1970, but choosing only the largest one fromeach management group. It summarizes the overall return of eachof these funds for 1961–1965, 1966–1970, and for the single yearsInvesting in Investment Funds 229TABLE 9-1 Management Results of Ten Large Mutual Fundsa
(Indicated) Net Assets,
5 years, 10 years, December
1961–1965 5 years, 1961–1970 1970
(all +) 1966–1970 (all +) 1969 1970 (millions)
Affiliated Fund 71% +19.7% 105.3% –14.3% +2.2% $1,600
Dreyfus 97 +18.7 135.4 –11.9 –6.4 2,232
Fidelity Fund 79 +31.8 137.1 –7.4 +2.2 819
Fundamental Inv. 79 + 1.0 81.3 –12.7 –5.8 1,054
Invest. Co. of Am. 82 +37.9 152.2 –10.6 +2.3 1,168
Investors Stock Fund 54 + 5.6 63.5 –80.0 –7.2 2,227
Mass. Inv. Trust 18 +16.2 44.2 – 4.0 +0.6 1,956
National Investors 61 +31.7 112.2 + 4.0 –9.1 747
Putnam Growth 62 +22.3 104.0 –13.3 –3.8 684
United Accum. 74 – 2.0 72.7 –10.3 –2.9 1,141
Average 72 18.3 105.8 – 8.9 –2.2 $13,628 (total)
Standard & Poor’s
composite index 77 +16.1 104.7 – 8.3 +3.5
DJIA 78 + 2.9 83.0 –11.6 +8.7
aThese are the stock funds with the largest net assets at the end of 1970, but using only one fund fr om each management group. Data supplied
by Wiesenberger Financial Services.1969 and 1970. We also give average results based on the sum of
one share of each of the ten funds. These companies had combined
assets of over $15 billion at the end of 1969, or about one-third of all
the common-stock funds. Thus they should be fairly representativeof the industry as a whole. (In theory, there should be a bias in thislist on the side of better than industry performance, since these bet-ter companies should have been entitled to more rapid expansionthan the others; but this may not be the case in practice.)
Some interesting facts can be gathered from this table. First, we
find that the overall results of these ten funds for 1961–1970 werenot appreciably different from those of the Standard & Poor’s 500-
stock composite average (or the S & P 425-industrial stock aver-
age). But they were definitely better than those of the DJIA. (Thisraises the intriguing question as to why the 30 giants in the DJIAdid worse than the much more numerous and apparently rathermiscellaneous list used by Standard & Poor’s.)* A second point isthat the funds’ aggregate performance as against the S & P index
has improved somewhat in the last five years, compared with the
preceding five. The funds’ gain ran a little lower than S & P’s in1961–1965 and a little higher than S & P’s in 1966–1970. The third
point is that a wide difference exists between the results of the indi-
vidual funds.
We do not think the mutual-fund industry can be criticized for
doing no better than the market as a whole. Their managers andtheir professional competitors administer so large a portion of allmarketable common stocks that what happens to the market as a
whole must necessarily happen (approximately) to the sum of theirfunds. (Note that the trust assets of insured commercial banks
included $181 billion of common stocks at the end of 1969; if we
add to this the common stocks in accounts handled by investment
advisers, plus the $56 billion of mutual and similar funds, we mustconclude that the combined decisions of these professionals pretty
well determine the movements of the stock averages, and that theInvesting in Investment Funds 231
* For periods as long as 10 years, the returns of the Dow and the S & P 500
can diverge by fairly wide margins. Over the course of the typical investinglifetime, however—say 25 to 50 years—their returns have tended to convergequite closely.movement of the stock averages pretty well determines the funds’
aggregate results.)
Are there better than average funds and can the investor select
these so as to obtain superior results for himself? Obviously allinvestors could not do this, since in that case we would soon beback where we started, with no one doing better than anyone else.Let us consider the question first in a simplified fashion. Whyshouldn’t the investor find out what fund has made the best show-
ing of the lot over a period of sufficient years in the past, assume
from this that its management is the most capable and will there-fore do better than average in the future, and put his money in that
fund? This idea appears the more practicable because, in the case
of the mutual funds, he could obtain this “most capable manage-ment” without paying any special premium for it as against theother funds. (By contrast, among noninvestment corporations thebest-managed companies sell at correspondingly high prices inrelation to their current earnings and assets.)
The evidence on this point has been conflicting over the years.
But our Table 9-1 covering the ten largest funds indicates that theresults shown by the top five performers of 1961–1965 carried over
on the whole through 1966–1970, even though two of this set did not
do as well as two of the other five. Our studies indicate that the
investor in mutual-fund shares may properly consider compara-
tive performance over a period of years in the past, say at least five,
provided the data do not represent a large net upward movement of
the market as a whole. In the latter case spectacularly favorableresults may be achieved in unorthodox ways—as will be demon-strated in our following section on “performance” funds. Suchresults in themselves may indicate only that the fund managers are
taking undue speculative risks, and getting away with same for the
time being.
“Performance” Funds
One of the new phenomena of recent years was the appearance
of the cult of “performance” in the management of investment
funds (and even of many trust funds). We must start this sectionwith the important disclaimer that it does not apply to the largemajority of well-established funds, but only to a relatively small232 The Intelligent Investorsection of the industry which has attracted a disproportionate
amount of attention. The story is simple enough. Some of those in
charge set out to get much better than average (or DJIA) results.
They succeeded in doing this for a while, garnering considerablepublicity and additional funds to manage. The aim was legitimateenough; unfortunately, it appears that, in the context of investingreally sizable funds, the aim cannot be accomplished withoutincurring sizable risks. And in a comparatively short time the risks
came home to roost.
Several of the circumstances surrounding the “performance”
phenomenon caused ominous headshaking by those of us whoseexperience went far back—even to the 1920s—and whose views,
for that very reason, were considered old-fashioned and irrelevantto this (second) “New Era.” In the first place, and on this verypoint, nearly all these brilliant performers were young men—intheir thirties and forties—whose direct financial experience waslimited to the all but continuous bull market of 1948–1968. Sec-
ondly, they often acted as if the definition of a “sound investment”
was a stock that was likely to have a good rise in the market in thenext few months. This led to large commitments in newer ventures
at prices completely disproportionate to their assets or recorded
earnings. They could be “justified” only by a combination of naïvehope in the future accomplishments of these enterprises with an
apparent shrewdness in exploiting the speculative enthusiasms of
the uninformed and greedy public.
This section will not mention people’s names. But we have
every reason to give concrete examples of companies. The “perfor-
mance fund” most in the public’s eye was undoubtedly Manhattan
Fund, Inc., organized at the end of 1965. Its first offering was of 27
million shares at $9.25 to $10 per share. The company started out
with $247 million of capital. Its emphasis was, of course, on capitalgains. Most of its funds were invested in issues selling at high mul-
tipliers of current earnings, paying no dividends (or very small
ones), with a large speculative following and spectacular pricemovements. The fund showed an overall gain of 38.6% in 1967,against 11% for the S & P composite index. But thereafter its perfor-mance left much to be desired, as is shown in Table 9-2.Investing in Investment Funds 233234 The Intelligent Investor
TABLE 9-2 A Performance-Fund Portfolio and Performance
(Larger Holdings of Manhattan Fund, December 31, 1969)
Shares Market
Held Earned Dividend Value
(thousands) Issue Price 1969 1969 (millions)
60 Teleprompter 99 $ .99 none $ 6.0
190 Deltona 601⁄2 2.32 none 11.5
280 Fedders 34 1.28 $ .35 9.5
105 Horizon Corp. 531⁄2 2.68 none 5.6
150 Rouse Co. 34 .07 none 5.1130 Mattel Inc. 64
1⁄4 1.11 .20 8.4
120 Polaroid 125 1.90 .32 15.0244
aNat’l Student Mkt’g 281⁄2 .32 none 6.1
56 Telex Corp. 901⁄2 .68 none 5.0
100 Bausch & Lomb 773⁄4 1.92 .80 7.8
190 Four Seasons Nursing 66 .80 none 12.3b
20 Int. Bus. Machines 365 8.21 3.60 7.341.5 Nat’l Cash Register 160 1.95 1.20 6.7
100 Saxon Ind. 109 3.81 none 10.9
105 Career Academy 50 .43 none 5.3
285 King Resources 28 .69 none 8.1
$130.6
Other common stocks 93.8
Other holdings 19.6
Total investmentsc$244.0
aAfter 2-for-1 split.
bAlso $1.1 million of affiliated stocks.
cExcluding cash equivalents.
Annual Performance Compared with S & P Composite Index
1966 1967 1968 1969 1970 1971
Manhattan Fund – 6 % +38.6% – 7.3% –13.3% –36.9% + 9.6%
S & P Composite –10.1% +23.0% +10.4% – 8.3% + 3.5% +13.5%The portfolio of Manhattan Fund at the end of 1969 was
unorthodox to say the least. It is an extraordinary fact that two of
its largest investments were in companies that filed for bankruptcy
within six months thereafter, and a third faced creditors’ actions in1971. It is another extraordinary fact that shares of at least one ofthese doomed companies were bought not only by investmentfunds but by university endowment funds, the trust departmentsof large banking institutions, and the like.* A third extraordinary
fact was that the founder-manager of Manhattan Fund sold his
stock in a separately organized management company to anotherlarge concern for over $20 million in its stock; at that time the man-
agement company sold had less than $1 million in assets. This is
undoubtedly one of the greatest disparities of all times between theresults for the “manager” and the “managees.”
A book published at the end of 1969
2provided profiles of nine-
teen men “who are tops at the demanding game of managing bil-
lions of dollars of other people’s money.” The summary told us
further that “they are youn g...s o m e  earn more than a million dol-
lars a yea r... they are a new financial bree d... they all have a
total fascination with the marke t... and a spectacular knack for
coming up with winners.” A fairly good idea of the accomplish-ments of this top group can be obtained by examining the pub-
lished results of the funds they manage. Such results are available
for funds directed by twelve of the nineteen persons described inThe Money Managers. Typically enough, they showed up well in
1966, and brilliantly in 1967. In 1968 their performance was stillgood in the aggregate, but mixed as to individual funds. In 1969they all showed losses, with only one managing to do a bit better
than the S & P composite index. In 1970 their comparative perfor-
mance was even worse than in 1969.Investing in Investment Funds 235
* One of the “doomed companies” Graham refers to was National Student
Marketing Corp., a con game masquerading as a stock, whose saga was
told brilliantly in Andrew Tobias’s The Funny Money Game (Playboy Press,
New York, 1971). Among the supposedly sophisticated investors who were
snookered by NSM’s charismatic founder, Cort Randell, were the endow-ment funds of Cornell and Harvard and the trust departments at such presti-gious banks as Morgan Guaranty and Bankers Trust.We have presented this picture in order to point a moral, which
perhaps can best be expressed by the old French proverb: Plus ça
change, plus c’est la même chose. Bright, energetic people—usually
quite young—have promised to perform miracles with “other
people’s money” since time immemorial. They have usually beenable to do it for a while—or at least to appear to have done it—andthey have inevitably brought losses to their public in the end.*About a half century ago the “miracles” were often accompanied
by flagrant manipulation, misleading corporate reporting, outra-
geous capitalization structures, and other semifraudulent financialpractices. All this brought on an elaborate system of financial con-
trols by the SEC, as well as a cautious attitude toward common
stocks on the part of the general public. The operations of the new“money managers” in 1965–1969 came a little more than one fullgeneration after the shenanigans of 1926–1929.† The specific mal-practices banned after the 1929 crash were no longer resorted to—they involved the risk of jail sentences. But in many corners of Wall
Street they were replaced by newer gadgets and gimmicks that
produced very similar results in the end. Outright manipulation ofprices disappeared, but there were many other methods of draw-
ing the gullible public’s attention to the profit possibilities in “hot”
issues. Blocks of “letter stock”
3could be bought well below the
quoted market price, subject to undisclosed restrictions on their
sale; they could immediately be carried in the reports at their full
market value, showing a lovely and illusory profit. And so on. It is236 The Intelligent Investor
* As only the latest proof that “the more things change, the more they stay
the same, ” consider that Ryan Jacob, a 29-year-old boy wonder, launched
the Jacob Internet Fund at year-end 1999, after producing a 216% return at
his previous dot-com fund. Investors poured nearly $300 million intoJacob’s fund in the first few weeks of 2000. It then proceeded to lose
79.1% in 2000, 56.4% in 2001, and 13% in 2002—a cumulative collapse of
92%. That loss may have made Mr. Jacob’s investors even older and wiserthan it made him.† Intriguingly, the disastrous boom and bust of 1999–2002 also cameroughly 35 years after the previous cycle of insanity. Perhaps it takes about35 years for the investors who remember the last “New Economy” craze tobecome less influential than those who do not. If this intuition is correct, theintelligent investor should be particularly vigilant around the year 2030.amazing how, in a completely different atmosphere of regulation
and prohibitions, Wall Street was able to duplicate so much of the
excesses and errors of the 1920s.
No doubt there will be new regulations and new prohibitions.
The specific abuses of the late 1960s will be fairly adequately
banned from Wall Street. But it is probably too much to expect thatthe urge to speculate will ever disappear, or that the exploitation ofthat urge can ever be abolished. It is part of the armament of the
intelligent investor to know about these “Extraordinary Popular
Delusions,”
4and to keep as far away from them as possible.
The picture of most of the performance funds is a poor one if we
start after their spectacular record in 1967. With the 1967 figures
included, their overall showing is not at all disastrous. On thatbasis one of “The Money Managers” operators did quite a bit betterthan the S & P composite index, three did distinctly worse, and sixdid about the same. Let us take as a check another group of perfor-mance funds—the ten that made the best showing in 1967, withgains ranging from 84% up to 301% in that single year. Of these,four gave a better overall four-year performance than the S & Pindex, if the 1967 gains are included; and two excelled the index in
1968–1970. None of these funds was large, and the average size
was about $60 million. Thus, there is a strong indication thatsmaller size is a necessary factor for obtaining continued outstand-
ing results.
The foregoing account contains the implicit conclusion that
there may be special risks involved in looking for superior perfor-mance by investment-fund managers. All financial experience up
to now indicates that large funds, soundly managed, can produceat best only slightly better than average results over the years. If
they are unsoundly managed they can produce spectacular, but
largely illusory, profits for a while, followed inevitably by calami-tous losses. There have been instances of funds that have consis-
tently outperformed the market averages for, say, ten years or
more. But these have been scarce exceptions, having most of theiroperations in specialized fields, with self-imposed limits on thecapital employed—and not actively sold to the public.*Investing in Investment Funds 237
* Today’s equivalent of Graham’s “scarce exceptions” tend to be open-end
funds that are closed to new investors—meaning that the managers haveClosed-End versus Open-End Funds
Almost all the mutual funds or open-end funds, which offer
their holders the right to cash in their shares at each day’s valua-
tion of the portfolio, have a corresponding machinery for sellingnew shares. By this means most of them have grown in size overthe years. The closed-end companies, nearly all of which were
organized a long time ago, have a fixed capital structure, and thushave diminished in relative dollar importance. Open-end compa-
nies are being sold by many thousands of energetic and persuasive
salesmen, the closed-end shares have no one especially interestedin distributing them. Consequently it has been possible to sell most“mutual funds” to the public at a fixed premium of about 9%above net asset value (to cover salesmen’s commissions, etc.),while the majority of close-end shares have been consistently
obtainable at lessthan their asset value. This price discount has var-
ied among individual companies, and the average discount for the
group as a whole has also varied from one date to another. Figures
on this point for 1961–1970 are given in Table 9-3.
It does not take much shrewdness to suspect that the lower rela-
tive price for closed-end as against open-end shares has very littleto do with the difference in the overall investment results between
the two groups. That this is true is indicated by the comparison ofthe annual results for 1961–1970 of the two groups included in
Table 9-3.
Thus we arrive at one of the few clearly evident rules for
investors’ choices. If you want to put money in investment funds,buy a group of closed-end shares at a discount of, say, 10% to 15%from asset value, instead of paying a premium of about 9% above
asset value for shares of an open-end company. Assuming that the
future dividends and changes in asset values continue to be about
the same for the two groups, you will thus obtain about one-fifthmore for your money from the closed-end shares.
The mutual-fund salesman will be quick to counter with the238 The Intelligent Investor
stopped taking in any more cash. While that reduces the management fees
they can earn, it maximizes the returns their existing shareholders can earn.Because most fund managers would rather look out for No. 1 than be No. 1,closing a fund to new investors is a rare and courageous step.argument: “Ah, but if you own closed-end shares you can never be
sure what price you can sell them for. The discount can be greater
than it is today, and you will suffer from the wider spread. With
our shares you are guaranteed the right to turn in your shares at100% of asset value, never less.” Let us examine this argument a
bit; it will be a good exercise in logic and plain common sense.
Question: Assuming that the discount on closed-end shares doeswiden, how likely is it that you will be worse off with those sharesthan with an otherwise equivalent purchase of open-end shares?
This calls for a little arithmetic. Assume that Investor A buys
some open-end shares at 109% of asset value, and Investor B buysclosed-end shares at 85% thereof, plus 1
1⁄2% commission. Both sets
of shares earn and pay 30% of this asset value in, say, four years,Investing in Investment Funds 239
TABLE 9-3 Certain Data on Closed-End Funds, Mutual
Funds, and S & P Composite Index
Average
Average Average Results
Discount Results of Results
of of Mutual of
Closed-End Closed-End Stock S & P
Year Funds FundsaFundsbIndexc
1970 – 6% even – 5.3% + 3.5%
1969 – 7.9% –12.5 – 8.31968 (+ 7)
d+13.3 +15.4 +10.4
1967 – 5 +28.2 +37.2 +23.01966 –12 – 5.9 – 4.1 –10.1
1965 –14 +14.0 +24.8 +12.2
1964 –10 +16.9 +13.6 +14.81963 – 8 +20.8 +19.3 +24.0
1962 – 4 –11.6 –14.6 – 8.7
1961 – 3 +23.6 +25.7 +27.0
Average of 10 yearly figures: + 9.14% + 9.95% + 9.79%
aWiesenberger average of ten diversified companies.
bAverage of five Wiesenberger averages of common-stock funds each year.
cIn all cases distributions are added back.
dPremium.and end up with the same value as at the beginning. Investor A
redeems his shares at 100% of value, losing the 9% premium he
paid. His overall return for the period is 30% less 9%, or 21% on
asset value. This, in turn, is 19% on his investment. How muchmust Investor B realize on his closed-end shares to obtain the same
return on his investment as Investor A? The answer is 73%, or a
discount of 27% from asset value. In other words, the closed-endman could suffer a widening of 12 points in the market discount
(about double) before his return would get down to that of the
open-end investor. An adverse change of this magnitude has hap-pened rarely, if ever, in the history of closed-end shares. Hence it isvery unlikely that you will obtain a lower overall return from a(representative) closed-end company, bought at a discount, if itsinvestment performance is about equal to that of a representative
mutual fund. If a small-load (or no-load) fund is substituted for
one with the usual “8
1⁄2%” load, the advantage of the closed-end
investment is of course reduced, but it remains an advantage.
The fact that a few closed-end funds are selling at premiums
greater than the true 9% charge on most mutual funds introduces aseparate question for the investor. Do these premium companiesenjoy superior management of sufficient proven worth to warranttheir elevated prices? If the answer is sought in the comparativeresults for the past five or ten years, the answer would appear to beno. Three of the six premium companies have mainly foreigninvestments. A striking feature of these is the large variation in240 The Intelligent Investor
TABLE 9-4 Average Results of Diversified Closed-End
Funds, 1961–1970a
Premium or
Discount,
5 years, December
1970 1966–1970 1961–1970 1970
Three funds selling
at premiums –5.2% +25.4% +115.0% 11.4% premium
Ten funds selling
at discounts +1.3 +22.6 +102.9 9.2% discount
aData from Wiesenberger Financial Services.prices in a few years’ time; at the end of 1970 one sold at only one-
quarter of its high, another at a third, another at less than half. If we
consider the three domestic companies selling above asset value,
we find that the average of their ten-year overall returns was some-what better than that of ten discount funds, but the opposite was
true in the last five years. A comparison of the 1961–1970 record ofLehman Corp. and of General American Investors, two of our old-
est and largest closed-end companies, is given in Table 9-5. One of
these sold 14% above and the other 7.6% below its net-asset value
at the end of 1970. The difference in price to net-asset relationshipsdid not appear warranted by these figures.
Investment in Balanced Funds
The 23 balanced funds covered in the Wiesenberger Report had
between 25% and 59% of their assets in preferred stocks and bonds,
the average being just 40%. The balance was held in common
stocks. It would appear more logical for the typical investor tomake his bond-type investments directly, rather than to have them
form part of a mutual-fund commitment. The average income
return shown by these balanced funds in 1970 was only 3.9% perannum on asset value, or say 3.6% on the offering price. The betterchoice for the bond component would be the purchase of UnitedStates savings bonds, or corporate bonds rated A or better, or tax-free bonds, for the investor’s bond portfolio.Investing in Investment Funds 241
TABLE 9-5 Comparison of Two Leading Closed-End 
Companiesa
Premium or
Discount,
5 years, 10 years, December
1970 1966–1970 1961–1970 1970
General Am.
Investors Co. –0.3% +34.0% +165.6% 7.6% discount
Lehman Corp. –7.2 +20.6 +108.0 13.9% premium
aData from Wiesenberger Financial Services.COMMENTARY ON C HAPTER 9
The schoolteacher asks Billy Bob: “If you have twelve 
sheep and one jumps over the fence, how many sheep do 
you have left?”
Billy Bob answers, “None. ”“Well, ” says the teacher, “you sure don’t know your 
subtraction. ”
“Maybe not, ” Billy Bob replies, “but I darn sure know 
my sheep. ”
—an old Texas joke
ALMOST PERFECT
A purely American creation, the mutual fund was introduced in 1924
by a former salesman of aluminum pots and pans named Edward G.
Leffler. Mutual funds are quite cheap, very convenient, generally diver-sified, professionally managed, and tightly regulated under some of
the toughest provisions of Federal securities law. By making investing
easy and affordable for almost anyone, the funds have brought some54 million American families (and millions more around the world) into
the investing mainstream—probably the greatest advance in financial
democracy ever achieved.
But mutual funds aren’t perfect; they are almost perfect, and that
word makes all the difference. Because of their imperfections, mostfunds underperform the market, overcharge their investors, create taxheadaches, and suffer erratic swings in performance. The intelligent
investor must choose funds with great care in order to avoid endingup owning a big fat mess.
242TOP OF THE CHARTS
Most investors simply buy a fund that has been going up fast, on the
assumption that it will keep on going. And why not? Psychologistshave shown that humans have an inborn tendency to believe that thelong run can be predicted from even a short series of outcomes.What’s more, we know from our own experience that some plumbers
are far better than others, that some baseball players are much more
likely to hit home runs, that our favorite restaurant serves consistentlysuperior food, and that smart kids get consistently good grades. Skill
and brains and hard work are recognized, rewarded—and consistentlyrepeated—all around us. So, if a fund beats the market, our intuitiontells us to expect it to keep right on outperforming.
Unfortunately, in the financial markets, luck is more important than
skill. If a manager happens to be in the right corner of the market at 
just the right time, he will look brilliant—but all too often, what was hot
suddenly goes cold and the manager’s IQ seems to shrivel by 50 
points. Figure 9-1 shows what happened to the hottest funds of 1999.
This is yet another reminder that the market’s hottest market sec-
tor—in 1999, that was technology—often turns as cold as liquid nitro-gen, with blinding speed and utterly no warning.
1And it’s a reminder
that buying funds based purely on their past performance is one of thestupidest things an investor can do. Financial scholars have been
studying mutual-fund performance for at least a half century, and they
are virtually unanimous on several points:
• the average fund does not pick stocks well enough to overcome
its costs of researching and trading them;
• the higher a fund’s expenses, the lower its returns;
• the more frequently a fund trades its stocks, the less it tends to
earn;Commentary on Chapter 9 243
1Sector funds specializing in almost every imaginable industry are avail-
able—and date back to the 1920s. After nearly 80 years of history, the evi-
dence is overwhelming: The most lucrative, and thus most popular, sector ofany given year often turns out to be among the worst performers of the fol-lowing year. Just as idle hands are the devil’s workshop, sector funds are theinvestor’s nemesis.Value on
12/31/02
of $10,000
invested on
Fund 1999 2000 2001 2002 1/1/1999
Van Wagoner Emerging Growth 291.2 –20.9 –59.7 –64.6 4,419
Monument Internet 273.1 –56.9 –52.2 –51.2 3,756
Amerindo Technology 248.9 –64.8 –50.8 –31.0 4,175
PBHG Technology & Communications 243.9 –43.7 –52.4 –54.5 4,198
Van Wagoner Post-Venture 237.2 –30.3 –62.1 –67.3 2,907
ProFunds Ultra OTC 233.2 –73.7 –69.1 –69.4 829
Van Wagoner Technology 223.8 –28.1 –61.9 –65.8 3,029
Thurlow Growth 213.2 –56.0 –26.1 –31.0 7,015
Firsthand Technology Innovators 212.3 –37.9 –29.1 –54.8 6,217
Janus Global Technology 211.6 –33.7 –40.0 –40.9 7,327
Wilshire 5000 index (total stock market) 23.8 –10.9 –11.0 –20.8 7,780
Source: Lipper
Note: Monument Internet was later renamed Orbitex Emer ging Technology.
These 10 funds were among the hottest performers of 1999—and, in fact, among the highest annual per formers of all time. But the
next three years erased all the giant gains of 1999, and then some.Total ReturnFIGURE 9-1 The Crash-and-Burn Club• highly volatile funds, which bounce up and down more than aver-
age, are likely to stay volatile;
• funds with high past returns are unlikely to remain winners for
long.2
Your chances of selecting the top-performing funds of the future on
the basis of their returns in the past are about as high as the odds that
Bigfoot and the Abominable Snowman will both show up in pink balletslippers at your next cocktail party. In other words, your chances arenot zero—but they’re pretty close. (See sidebar, p. 255.)
But there’s good news, too. First of all, understanding why it’s so
hard to find a good fund will help you become a more intelligent
investor. Second, while past performance is a poor predictor of future
returns, there are other factors that you can use to increase your oddsof finding a good fund. Finally, a fund can offer excellent value even if it
doesn’t beat the market—by providing an economical way to diversify
your holdings and by freeing up your time for all the other things youwould rather be doing than picking your own stocks.
THE FIRST SHALL BE LAST
Why don’t more winning funds stay winners?
The better a fund performs, the more obstacles its investors face:
Migrating managers. When a stock picker seems to have the
Midas touch, everyone wants him—including rival fund companies. If you bought Transamerica Premier Equity Fund to cash in on theskills of Glen Bickerstaff, who gained 47 .5% in 1997 , you were quicklyout of luck; TCW snatched him away in mid-1998 to run its TCWGalileo Select Equities Fund, and the Transamerica fund lagged the market in three of the next four years. If you bought Fidelity
Aggressive Growth Fund in early 2000 to capitalize on the high
returns of Erin Sullivan, who had nearly tripled her shareholders’money since 1997 , oh well: She quit to start her own hedge fund inCommentary on Chapter 9 245
2The research on mutual fund performance is too voluminous to cite. Useful
summaries and links can be found at: www.investorhome.com/mutual.
htm#do, www.ssrn.com (enter “mutual fund” in the search window), andwww.stanford.edu/~wfsharpe/art/art.htm.2000, and her former fund lost more than three-quarters of its value
over the next three years.3
Asset elephantiasis. When a fund earns high returns, investors
notice—often pouring in hundreds of millions of dollars in a matter of
weeks. That leaves the fund manager with few choices—all of thembad. He can keep that money safe for a rainy day, but then the low
returns on cash will crimp the fund’s results if stocks keep going up.He can put the new money into the stocks he already owns—whichhave probably gone up since he first bought them and will becomedangerously overvalued if he pumps in millions of dollars more. Or he
can buy new stocks he didn’t like well enough to own already—but hewill have to research them from scratch and keep an eye on far more
companies than he is used to following.
Finally, when the $100-million Nimble Fund puts 2% of its assets
(or $2 million) in Minnow Corp., a stock with a total market value of$500 million, it’s buying up less than one-half of 1% of Minnow. But ifhot performance swells the Nimble Fund to $10 billion, then an invest-ment of 2% of its assets would total $200 million—nearly half theentire value of Minnow, a level of ownership that isn’t even permissibleunder Federal law. If Nimble’s portfolio manager still wants to own
small stocks, he will have to spread his money over vastly more com-
panies—and probably end up spreading his attention too thin.
No more fancy footwork. Some companies specialize in “incubat-
ing” their funds—test-driving them privately before selling them pub-licly. (Typically, the only shareholders are employees and affiliates of
the fund company itself.) By keeping them tiny, the sponsor can usethese incubated funds as guinea pigs for risky strategies that work
best with small sums of money, like buying truly tiny stocks or rapid-firetrading of initial public offerings. If its strategy succeeds, the fund can
lure public investors en masse by publicizing its private returns. In
other cases, the fund manager “waives” (or skips charging) manage-
ment fees, raising the net return—then slaps the fees on later after thehigh returns attract plenty of customers. Almost without exception, the
returns of incubated and fee-waived funds have faded into mediocrity
after outside investors poured millions of dollars into them.246 Commentary on Chapter 9
3That’s not to say that these funds would have done better if their “super-
star” managers had stayed in place; all we can be sure of is that the two
funds did poorly without them.Rising expenses. It often costs more to trade stocks in very large
blocks than in small ones; with fewer buyers and sellers, it’s harder to
make a match. A fund with $100 million in assets might pay 1% a yearin trading costs. But, if high returns send the fund mushrooming up to$10 billion, its trades could easily eat up at least 2% of those assets.
The typical fund holds on to its stocks for only 11 months at a time, sotrading costs eat away at returns like a corrosive acid. Meanwhile, the
other costs of running a fund rarely fall—and sometimes even rise—as
assets grow. With operating expenses averaging 1.5%, and tradingcosts at around 2%, the typical fund has to beat the market by 3.5
percentage points per year before costs just to match it after costs!
Sheepish behavior. Finally, once a fund becomes successful, its
managers tend to become timid and imitative. As a fund grows, its
fees become more lucrative—making its managers reluctant to rockthe boat. The very risks that the managers took to generate their initialhigh returns could now drive investors away—and jeopardize all that fat
fee income. So the biggest funds resemble a herd of identical and
overfed sheep, all moving in sluggish lockstep, all saying “baaaa” atthe same time. Nearly every growth fund owns Cisco and GE and
Microsoft and Pfizer and Wal-Mart—and in almost identical propor-
tions. This behavior is so prevalent that finance scholars simply call itherding.
4But by protecting their own fee income, fund managers com-
promise their ability to produce superior returns for their outsideinvestors.Commentary on Chapter 9 247
4There’s a second lesson here: To succeed, the individual investor must
either avoid shopping from the same list of favorite stocks that have already
been picked over by the giant institutions, or own them far more patiently.
See Erik R. Sirri and Peter Tufano, “Costly Search and Mutual Fund Flows, ”The Journal of Finance, vol. 53, no. 8, October, 1998, pp. 1589–1622;
Keith C. Brown, W. V. Harlow, and Laura Starks, “Of Tournaments andTemptations, ” The Journal of Finance, vol. 51, no. 1, March, 1996, pp.
85–110; Josef Lakonishok, Andrei Shleifer, and Robert Vishny, “What Do
Money Managers Do?” working paper, University of Illinois, February, 1997;
Stanley Eakins, Stanley Stansell, and Paul Wertheim, “Institutional PortfolioComposition, ” Quarterly Review of Economics and Finance, vol. 38, no. 1,
Spring, 1998, pp. 93–110; Paul Gompers and Andrew Metrick, “Institu-tional Investors and Equity Prices, ” The Quarterly Journal of Economics, vol.
116, no. 1, February, 2001, pp. 229–260.Because of their fat costs and bad behavior, most funds fail to earn
their keep. No wonder high returns are nearly as perishable as unre-
frigerated fish. What’s more, as time passes, the drag of their exces-sive expenses leaves most funds farther and farther behind, as Figure
9.2 shows.
5
What, then, should the intelligent investor do?First of all, recognize that an index fund—which owns all the stocks248 Commentary on Chapter 9
Looking back from December 31, 2002, how many U.S. stock
funds outperformed Vanguard 500 Index Fund?
One year:
1,186 of 2,423 funds (or 48.9%)
Three years:
1,157 of 1,944 funds (or 59.5%)
Five years:
768 of 1,494 funds (or 51.4%)
Ten years:
227 of 728 funds (or 31.2%)
Fifteen years:
125 of 445 funds (or 28.1%)
Twenty years:
37 of 248 funds (or 14.9%)
Source: Lipper Inc.
5Amazingly, this illustration understates the advantage of index funds, since
the database from which it is taken does not include the track records of
hundreds of funds that disappeared over these periods. Measured moreaccurately, the advantage of indexing would be overpowering.FIGURE 9-2 The Funnel of Fund Performancein the market, all the time, without any pretense of being able to select
the “best” and avoid the “worst”—will beat most funds over the longrun. (If your company doesn’t offer a low-cost index fund in your401(k), organize your coworkers and petition to have one added.) Itsrock-bottom overhead—operating expenses of 0.2% annually, and
yearly trading costs of just 0.1%—give the index fund an insurmount-able advantage. If stocks generate, say, a 7% annualized return over
the next 20 years, a low-cost index fund like Vanguard Total Stock
Market will return just under 6.7%. (That would turn a $10,000 invest-ment into more than $36,000.) But the average stock fund, with 
its 1.5% in operating expenses and roughly 2% in trading costs, willbe lucky to gain 3.5% annually. (That would turn $10,000 into justunder $20,000—or nearly 50% less than the result from the index
fund.)
Index funds have only one significant flaw: They are boring. You’ll
never be able to go to a barbecue and brag about how you own thetop-performing fund in the country. You’ll never be able to boast that
you beat the market, because the job of an index fund is to match themarket’s return, not to exceed it. Your index-fund manager is not likely
to “roll the dice” and gamble that the next great industry will be tele-
portation, or scratch-’n’-sniff websites, or telepathic weight-loss clin-ics; the fund will always own every stock, not just one manager’s best
guess at the next new thing. But, as the years pass, the cost advan-
tage of indexing will keep accruing relentlessly. Hold an index fund for20 years or more, adding new money every month, and you are all but
certain to outperform the vast majority of professional and individualinvestors alike. Late in his life, Graham praised index funds as the best
choice for individual investors, as does Warren Buffett.
6Commentary on Chapter 9 249
6See Benjamin Graham, Benjamin Graham: Memoirs of the Dean of Wall
Street, Seymour Chatman, ed. (McGraw-Hill, New York, 1996), p. 273, and
Janet Lowe, The Rediscovered Benjamin Graham: Selected Writings of the
Wall Street Legend (John Wiley & Sons, New York, 1999), p. 273. As War-
ren Buffett wrote in his 1996 annual report: “Most investors, both institu-
tional and individual, will find that the best way to own common stocks isthrough an index fund that charges minimal fees. Those following this pathare sure to beat the net results (after fees and expenses) delivered by thegreat majority of investment professionals. ” (See www.berkshirehathaway.com/1996ar/1996.html.)TILTING THE TABLES
When you add up all their handicaps, the wonder is not that so few
funds beat the index, but that any do. And yet, some do. What quali-ties do they have in common?
Their managers are the biggest shareholders. The conflict of
interest between what’s best for the fund’s managers and what’s best
for its investors is mitigated when the managers are among the
biggest owners of the fund’s shares. Some firms, like Longleaf Part-ners, even forbid their employees from owning anything but their own
funds. At Longleaf and other firms like Davis and FPA, the managersown so much of the funds that they are likely to manage your moneyas if it were their own—lowering the odds that they will jack up fees, letthe funds swell to gargantuan size, or whack you with a nasty tax bill. A
fund’s proxy statement and Statement of Additional Information, bothavailable from the Securities and Exchange Commission through the
EDGAR database at www.sec.gov, disclose whether the managers
own at least 1% of the fund’s shares.
They are cheap. One of the most common myths in the fund busi-
ness is that “you get what you pay for”—that high returns are the bestjustification for higher fees. There are two problems with this argu-ment. First, it isn’t true; decades of research have proven that funds
with higher fees earn lower returns over time. Secondly, high returns
are temporary, while high fees are nearly as permanent as granite. If
you buy a fund for its hot returns, you may well end up with a handful
of cold ashes—but your costs of owning the fund are almost certain
notto decline when its returns do.
They dare to be different. When Peter Lynch ran Fidelity Magellan, he
bought whatever seemed cheap to him—regardless of what other fundmanagers owned. In 1982, his biggest investment was Treasury bonds;
right after that, he made Chrysler his top holding, even though most
experts expected the automaker to go bankrupt; then, in 1986, Lynch putalmost 20% of Fidelity Magellan in foreign stocks like Honda, Norsk
Hydro, and Volvo. So, before you buy a U.S. stock fund, compare the hold-
ings listed in its latest report against the roster of the S & P 500 index; ifthey look like Tweedledee and Tweedledum, shop for another fund.
7250 Commentary on Chapter 9
7A complete listing of the S & P 500’s constituent companies is available at
www.standardandpoors.com.They shut the door. The best funds often close to new investors—
permitting only their existing shareholders to buy more. That stops the
feeding frenzy of new buyers who want to pile in at the top and pro-tects the fund from the pains of asset elephantiasis. It’s also a signalthat the fund managers are not putting their own wallets ahead of
yours. But the closing should occur before—not after—the fundexplodes in size. Some companies with an exemplary record of shut-
ting their own gates are Longleaf, Numeric, Oakmark, T. Rowe Price,
Vanguard, and Wasatch.
They don’t advertise. Just as Plato says in The Republic that the ideal
rulers are those who do not want to govern, the best fund managers often
behave as if they don’t want your money. They don’t appear constantly onfinancial television or run ads boasting of their No. 1 returns. The steady lit-tle Mairs & Power Growth Fund didn’t even have a website until 2001 andstill sells its shares in only 24 states. The Torray Fund has never run a retail
advertisement since its launch in 1990.
What else should you watch for? Most fund buyers look at past
performance first, then at the manager’s reputation, then at the riski-ness of the fund, and finally (if ever) at the fund’s expenses.
8
The intelligent investor looks at those same things—but in the oppo-
site order.
Since a fund’s expenses are far more predictable than its future risk
or return, you should make them your first filter. There’s no good rea-
son ever to pay more than these levels of annual operating expenses,
by fund category:
• Taxable and municipal bonds: 0.75%
• U.S. equities (large and mid-sized stocks): 1.0%• High-yield (junk) bonds: 1.0%Commentary on Chapter 9 251
8See Noel Capon, Gavan Fitzsimons, and Russ Alan Prince, “An Individual
Level Analysis of the Mutual Fund Investment Decision, ” Journal of Finan-
cial Services Research, vol. 10, 1996, pp. 59–82; Investment Company
Institute, “Understanding Shareholders’ Use of Information and Advisers, ”
Spring, 1997 , at www.ici.org/pdf/rpt_undstnd_share.pdf, p. 21; GordonAlexander, Jonathan Jones, and Peter Nigro, “Mutual Fund Shareholders:Characteristics, Investor Knowledge, and Sources of Information, ” OCCworking paper, December, 1997 , at www.occ.treas.gov/ftp/workpaper/wp97-13.pdf.• U.S. equities (small stocks): 1.25%
• Foreign stocks: 1.50%9
Next, evaluate risk. In its prospectus (or buyer’s guide), every fund
must show a bar graph displaying its worst loss over a calendar quar-
ter. If you can’t stand losing at least that much money in three months,go elsewhere. It’s also worth checking a fund’s Morningstar rating. Aleading investment research firm, Morningstar awards “star ratings” tofunds, based on how much risk they took to earn their returns (onestar is the worst, five is the best). But, just like past performance itself,
these ratings look back in time; they tell you which funds were the
best, not which are going to be. Five-star funds, in fact, have a discon-certing habit of going on to underperform one-star funds. So first find
a low-cost fund whose managers are major shareholders, dare to be
different, don’t hype their returns, and have shown a willingness toshut down before they get too big for their britches. Then, and only
then, consult their Morningstar rating.
10
Finally, look at past performance, remembering that it is only a pale
predictor of future returns. As we’ve already seen, yesterday’s winners
often become tomorrow’s losers. But researchers have shown thatone thing is almost certain: Yesterday’s losers almost never become
tomorrow’s winners. So avoid funds with consistently poor pastreturns—especially if they have above-average annual expenses.
THE CLOSED WORLD OF 
CLOSED-END FUNDS
Closed-end stock funds, although popular during the 1980s, have
slowly atrophied. Today, there are only 30 diversified domestic 252 Commentary on Chapter 9
9Investors can search easily for funds that meet these expense hurdles by
using the fund-screening tools at www.morningstar.com and http://money.
cnn.com.
10See Matthew Morey, “Rating the Raters: An Investigation of Mutual Fund
Rating Services, ” Journal of Investment Consulting, vol. 5, no. 2, November/
December, 2002. While its star ratings are a weak predictor of future
results, Morningstar is the single best source of information on funds forindividual investors.equity funds, many of them tiny, trading only a few hundred shares 
a day, with high expenses and weird strategies (like Morgan Fun-Shares, which specializes in the stocks of “habit-forming” industrieslike booze, casinos, and cigarettes). Research by closed-end fundexpert Donald Cassidy of Lipper Inc. reinforces Graham’s earlier
observations: Diversified closed-end stock funds trading at a discountnot only tend to outperform those trading at a premium but are likely 
to have a better return than the average open-end mutual fund. 
Sadly, however, diversified closed-end stock funds are not alwaysavailable at a discount in what has become a dusty, dwindling 
market.
11
But there are hundreds of closed-end bond funds, with especially
strong choices available in the municipal-bond area. When these
funds trade at a discount, their yield is amplified and they can beattractive, so long as their annual expenses are below the thresholdslisted above.
12
The new breed of exchange-traded index funds can be worth
exploring as well. These low-cost “ETFs” sometimes offer the onlymeans by which an investor can gain entrée to a narrow market like,say, companies based in Belgium or stocks in the semiconductorindustry. Other index ETFs offer much broader market exposure. How-ever, they are generally not suitable for investors who wish to addmoney regularly, since most brokers will charge a separate commis-
sion on every new investment you make.
13Commentary on Chapter 9 253
11Unlike a mutual fund, a closed-end fund does not issue new shares
directly to anyone who wants to buy them. Instead, an investor must buy
shares not from the fund itself, but from another shareholder who is willing
to part with them. Thus, the price of the shares fluctuates above and belowtheir net asset value, depending on supply and demand.
12For more information, see www.morningstar.com and www.etfconnect.
com.
13Unlike index mutual funds, index ETFs are subject to standard stock com-
missions when you buy and sell them—and these commissions are oftenassessed on any additional purchases or reinvested dividends. Details areavailable at www.ishares.com, www.streettracks.com, www.amex.com, andwww.indexfunds.com.KNOW WHEN TO FOLD ’EM
Once you own a fund, how can you tell when it’s time to sell? 
The standard advice is to ditch a fund if it underperforms the market
(or similar portfolios) for one—or is it two?—or is it three?—years in 
a row. But this advice makes no sense. From its birth in 1970 through 1999, the Sequoia Fund underperformed the S & P 500
index in 12 out of its 29 years—or more than 41% of the time. Yet
Sequoia gained more than 12,500% over that period, versus 4,900%for the index.
14
The performance of most funds falters simply because the type of
stocks they prefer temporarily goes out of favor. If you hired a managerto invest in a particular way, why fire him for doing what he promised?
By selling when a style of investing is out of fashion, you not only lock
in a loss but lock yourself out of the all-but-inevitable recovery. Onestudy showed that mutual-fund investors underperformed their own
funds by 4.7 percentage points annually from 1998 through 2001—simply by buying high and selling low.
15
So when should you sell? Here a few definite red flags:
•a sharp and unexpected change in strategy, such as a “value”
fund loading up on technology stocks in 1999 or a “growth” fundbuying tons of insurance stocks in 2002;
•an increase in expenses, suggesting that the managers are lin-
ing their own pockets;
•large and frequent tax bills generated by excessive trading;
•suddenly erratic returns, as when a formerly conservative fund
generates a big loss (or even produces a giant gain).254 Commentary on Chapter 9
14See Sequoia’s June 30, 1999, report to shareholders at www.sequoia
fund.com/Reports/Quarterly/SemiAnn99.htm. Sequoia has been closed to
new investors since 1982, which has reinforced its superb performance.
15Jason Zweig, “What Fund Investors Really Need to Know, ” Money, June,
2002, pp. 110–115.WHY WE LOVE OUR OUIJA BOARDS
Believing—or even just hoping—that we can pick the best funds
of the future makes us feel better. It gives us the pleasing sensa-
tion that we are in charge of our own investment destiny. This“I’m-in-control-here” feeling is part of the human condition; it’swhat psychologists call overconfidence. Here are just a fewexamples of how it works:
• In 1999, Money Magazine asked more than 500 people
whether their portfolios had beaten the market. One in four
said yes. When asked to specify their returns, however, 80%of those investors reported gains lower than the market’s.
(Four percent had no idea how much their portfolios rose—but were sure they had beaten the market anyway!)
• A Swedish study asked drivers who had been in severe car
crashes to rate their own skills behind the wheel. These peo-ple—including some the police had found responsible for the
accidents and others who had been so badly injured thatthey answered the survey from their hospital beds—insisted
they were better-than-average drivers.
• In a poll taken in late 2000, Time and CNN asked more than
1,000 likely voters whether they thought they were in the top1% of the population by income. Nineteen percent placed
themselves among the richest 1% of Americans.
• In late 1997 , a survey of 750 investors found that 74%
believed their mutual-fund holdings would “consistently beat
the Standard & Poor’s 500 each year”—even though mostfunds fail to beat the S & P 500 in the long run and many failto beat it in anyyear.
1
While this kind of optimism is a normal sign of a healthy psy-
che, that doesn’t make it good investment policy. It makes senseto believe you can predict something only if it actually ispre-
dictable. Unless you are realistic, your quest for self-esteem willend up in self-defeat.
1See Jason Zweig, “Did You Beat the Market?” Money, January, 2000, pp.
55–58; Time /CNN poll #15, October 25–26, 2000, question 29.As the investment consultant Charles Ellis puts it, “If you’re not pre-
pared to stay married, you shouldn’t getmarried. ”16Fund investing is
no different. If you’re not prepared to stick with a fund through at least
three lean years, you shouldn’t buy it in the first place. Patience is thefund investor’s single most powerful ally.256 Commentary on Chapter 9
16See interview with Ellis in Jason Zweig, “Wall Street’s Wisest Man, ”
Money, June, 2001, pp. 49–52.CHAPTER 10
The Investor and His Advisers
The investment of money in securities is unique among business
operations in that it is almost always based in some degree on
advice received from others. The great bulk of investors are ama-teurs. Naturally they feel that in choosing their securities they canprofit by professional guidance. Yet there are peculiarities inherent
in the very concept of investment advice.
If the reason people invest is to make money, then in seeking
advice they are asking others to tell them how to make money. Thatidea has some element of naïveté. Businessmen seek professional
advice on various elements of their business, but they do notexpect to be told how to make a profit. That is their own bailiwick.
When they, or nonbusiness people, rely on others to make invest-
ment profits for them, they are expecting a kind of result for which
there is no true counterpart in ordinary business affairs.
If we assume that there are normal or standard income results to
be obtained from investing money in securities, then the role of the
adviser can be more readily established. He will use his superior
training and experience to protect his clients against mistakes andto make sure that they obtain the results to which their money is
entitled. It is when the investor demands more than an average
return on his money, or when his adviser undertakes to do better
for him, that the question arises whether more is being asked orpromised than is likely to be delivered.
Advice on investments may be obtained from a variety of
sources. These include: (1) a relative or friend, presumably knowl-edgeable in securities; (2) a local (commercial) banker; (3) a broker-age firm or investment banking house; (4) a financial service or
257periodical; and (5) an investment counselor.* The miscellaneous
character of this list suggests that no logical or systematic approach
in this matter has crystallized, as yet, in the minds of investors.
Certain common-sense considerations relate to the criterion of
normal or standard results mentioned above. Our basic thesis is
this: If the investor is to rely chiefly on the advice of others in han-dling his funds, then either he must limit himself and his advisersstrictly to standard, conservative, and even unimaginative forms of
investment, or he must have an unusually intimate and favorable
knowledge of the person who is going to direct his funds into otherchannels. But if the ordinary business or professional relationship
exists between the investor and his advisers, he can be receptive to
less conventional suggestions only to the extent that he himself has
grown in knowledge and experience and has therefore becomecompetent to pass independent judgment on the recommendationsof others. He has then passed from the category of defensive orunenterprising investor into that of aggressive or enterprising
investor.
Investment Counsel and Trust Services of Banks
The truly professional investment advisers—that is, the well-
established investment counsel firms, who charge substantialannual fees—are quite modest in their promises and pretentions.
For the most part they place their clients’ funds in standard inter-est- and dividend-paying securities, and they rely mainly on nor-
mal investment experience for their overall results. In the typical
case it is doubtful whether more than 10% of the total fund is everinvested in securities other than those of leading companies, plus258 The Intelligent Investor
* The list of sources for investment advice remains as “miscellaneous” as it
was when Graham wrote. A survey of investors conducted in late 2002 for
the Securities Industry Association, a Wall Street trade group, found that
17% of investors depended most heavily for investment advice on a spouseor friend; 2% on a banker; 16% on a broker; 10% on financial periodicals;and 24% on a financial planner. The only difference from Graham’s day isthat 8% of investors now rely heavily on the Internet and 3% on financialtelevision. (See www.sia.com.)government bonds (including state and municipal issues); nor do
they make a serious effort to take advantage of swings in the gen-
eral market.
The leading investment-counsel firms make no claim to being
brilliant; they do pride themselves on being careful, conservative,
and competent. Their primary aim is to conserve the principalvalue over the years and produce a conservatively acceptable rateof income. Any accomplishment beyond that—and they do strive
to better the goal—they regard in the nature of extra service ren-
dered. Perhaps their chief value to their clients lies in shieldingthem from costly mistakes. They offer as much as the defensive
investor has the right to expect from any counselor serving the
general public.
What we have said about the well-established investment-
counsel firms applies generally to the trust and advisory services of
the larger banks.*
Financial Services
The so-called financial services are organizations that send out
uniform bulletins (sometimes in the form of telegrams) to theirsubscribers. The subjects covered may include the state and
prospects of business, the behavior and prospect of the securitiesmarkets, and information and advice regarding individual issues.
There is often an “inquiry department” which will answer que-
stons affecting an individual subscriber. The cost of the serviceaverages much less than the fee that investment counselors charge
their individual clients. Some organizations—notably Babson’s
and Standard & Poor’s—operate on separate levels as a financialservice and as investment counsel. (Incidentally, other organiza-The Investor and His Advisers 259
* The character of investment counseling firms and trust banks has not
changed, but today they generally do not offer their services to investors
with less than $1 million in financial assets; in some cases, $5 million or
more is required. Today thousands of independent financial-planning firmsperform very similar functions, although (as analyst Robert Veres puts it) themutual fund has replaced blue-chip stocks as the investment of choice anddiversification has replaced “quality” as the standard of safety.tions—such as Scudder, Stevens & Clark—operate separately as
investment counsel and as one or more investment funds.)
The financial services direct themselves, on the whole, to a quite
different segment of the public than do the investment-counselfirms. The latters’ clients generally wish to be relieved of botherand the need for making decisions. The financial services offerinformation and guidance to those who are directing their ownfinancial affairs or are themselves advising others. Many of these
services confine themselves exclusively, or nearly so, to forecasting
market movements by various “technical” methods. We shall dis-miss these with the observation that their work does not concern
“investors” as the term is used in this book.
On the other hand, some of the best known—such as Moody’s
Investment Service and Standard & Poor’s—are identified with
statistical organizations that compile the voluminous statisticaldata that form the basis for all serious security analysis. These ser-vices have a varied clientele, ranging from the most conservative-
minded investor to the rankest speculator. As a result they must
find it difficult to adhere to any clear-cut or fundamental philoso-phy in arriving at their opinions and recommendations.
An old-established service of the type of Moody’s and the others
must obviously provide something worthwhile to a broad class ofinvestors. What is it? Basically they address themselves to the mat-
ters in which the average active investor-speculator is interested,
and their views on these either command some measure of author-ity or at least appear more reliable than those of the unaided client.
For years the financial services have been making stock-market
forecasts without anyone taking this activity very seriously. Likeeveryone else in the field they are sometimes right and sometimes
wrong. Wherever possible they hedge their opinions so as to avoid
the risk of being proved completely wrong. (There is a well-developed art of Delphic phrasing that adjusts itself successfully to
whatever the future brings.) In our view—perhaps a prejudiced
one—this segment of their work has no real significance except forthe light it throws on human nature in the securities markets.Nearly everyone interested in common stocks wants to be told bysomeone else what he thinks the market is going to do. Thedemand being there, it must be supplied.
Their interpretations and forecasts of business conditions, of260 The Intelligent Investorcourse, are much more authoritative and informing. These are an
important part of the great body of economic intelligence which is
spread continuously among buyers and sellers of securities and
tends to create fairly rational prices for stocks and bonds undermost circumstances. Undoubtedly the material published by thefinancial services adds to the store of information available and for-tifies the investment judgment of their clients.
It is difficult to evaluate their recommendations of individual
securities. Each service is entitled to be judged separately, and theverdict could properly be based only on an elaborate and inclusivestudy covering many years. In our own experience we have noted
among them a pervasive attitude which we think tends to impair
what could otherwise be more useful advisory work. This is theirgeneral view that a stock should be bought if the near-termprospects of the business are favorable and should be sold if theseare unfavorable— regardless of the current price. Such a superficial
principle often prevents the services from doing the sound analyti-
cal job of which their staffs are capable—namely, to ascertain
whether a given stock appears over- or undervalued at the currentprice in the light of its indicated long-term future earning power.
The intelligent investor will not do his buying and selling solely on
the basis of recommendations received from a financial service. Oncethis point is established, the role of the financial service then becomes
the useful one of supplying information and offering suggestions.
Advice from Brokerage Houses
Probably the largest volume of information and advice to the
security-owning public comes from stockbrokers. These are mem-bers of the New York Stock Exchange, and of other exchanges, 
who execute buying and selling orders for a standard commission.Practically all the houses that deal with the public maintain a 
“statistical” or analytical department, which answers inquiries 
and makes recommendations. A great deal of analytical literature,some of it elaborate and expensive, is distributed gratis to thefirms’ customers—more impressively referred to as clients.
A great deal is at stake in the innocent-appearing question
whether “customers” or “clients” is the more appropriate name. Abusiness has customers; a professional person or organization hasThe Investor and His Advisers 261clients. The Wall Street brokerage fraternity has probably the high-
est ethical standards of any business, but it is still feeling its way
toward the standards and standing of a true profession.*
In the past Wall Street has thrived mainly on speculation, and
stock-market speculators as a class were almost certain to losemoney. Hence it has been logically impossible for brokeragehouses to operate on a thoroughly professional basis. To do thatwould have required them to direct their efforts toward reducing
rather than increasing their business.
The farthest that certain brokerage houses have gone in that
direction—and could have been expected to go—is to refrain frominducing or encouraging anyone to speculate. Such houses have
confined themselves to executing orders given them, to supplyingfinancial information and analyses, and to rendering opinions onthe investment merits of securities. Thus, in theory at least, they aredevoid of all responsibility for either the profits or the losses oftheir speculative customers.†
Most stock-exchange houses, however, still adhere to the old-
time slogans that they are in business to make commissions andthat the way to succeed in business is to give the customers what
they want. Since the most profitable customers want speculative
advice and suggestions, the thinking and activities of the typicalfirm are pretty closely geared to day-to-day trading in the market.
Thus it tries hard to help its customers make money in a field
where they are condemned almost by mathematical law to lose inthe end.‡ By this we mean that the speculative part of their opera-
tions cannot be profitable over the long run for most brokerage-262 The Intelligent Investor
* Overall, Graham was as tough and cynical an observer as Wall Street has
ever seen. In this rare case, however, he was not nearly cynical enough. Wall
Street may have higher ethical standards than some businesses (smug-
gling, prostitution, Congressional lobbying, and journalism come to mind)
but the investment world nevertheless has enough liars, cheaters, and
thieves to keep Satan’s check-in clerks frantically busy for decades to come.
† The thousands of people who bought stocks in the late 1990s in the beliefthat Wall Street analysts were providing unbiased and valuable advice havelearned, in a painful way, how right Graham is on this point.‡ Interestingly, this stinging criticism, which in his day Graham was directingat full-service brokers, ended up applying to discount Internet brokers in thehouse customers. But to the extent that their operations resemble
true investing they may produce investment gains that more than
offset the speculative losses.
The investor obtains advice and information from stock-
exchange houses through two types of employees, now known
officially as “customers’ brokers” (or “account executives”) andfinancial analysts.
The customer’s broker, also called a “registered representative,”
formerly bore the less dignified title of “customer’s man.” Todayhe is for the most part an individual of good character and consid-erable knowledge of securities, who operates under a rigid code of
right conduct. Nevertheless, since his business is to earn commis-
sions, he can hardly avoid being speculation-minded. Thus thesecurity buyer who wants to avoid being influenced by speculativeconsiderations will ordinarily have to be careful and explicit in hisdealing with his customer’s broker; he will have to show clearly, byword and deed, that he is not interested in anything faintly resem-
bling a stock-market “tip.” Once the customer’s broker under-
stands clearly that he has a real investor on his hands, he willrespect this point of view and cooperate with it.
The financial analyst, formerly known chiefly as security ana-
lyst, is a person of particular concern to the author, who has beenone himself for more than five decades and has helped educate
countless others. At this stage we refer only to the financial ana-
lysts employed by brokerage houses. The function of the securityanalyst is clear enough from his title. It is he who works up the
detailed studies of individual securities, develops careful compar-isons of various issues in the same field, and forms an expert opin-
ion of the safety or attractiveness or intrinsic value of all the
different kinds of stocks and bonds.The Investor and His Advisers 263
late 1990s. These firms spent millions of dollars on flashy advertising that
goaded their customers into trading more and trading faster. Most of those
customers ended up picking their own pockets, instead of paying someone
else to do it for them—and the cheap commissions on that kind of transac-tion are a poor consolation for the result. More traditional brokerage firms,meanwhile, began emphasizing financial planning and “integrated assetmanagement, ” instead of compensating their brokers only on the basis ofhow many commissions they could generate.By what must seem a quirk to the outsider there are no formal
requirements for being a security analyst. Contrast with this the
facts that a customer’s broker must pass an examination, meet the
required character tests, and be duly accepted and registered bythe New York Stock Exchange. As a practical matter, nearly all theyounger analysts have had extensive business-school training, andthe oldsters have acquired at least the equivalent in the school oflong experience. In the great majority of cases, the employing bro-
kerage house can be counted on to assure itself of the qualifications
and competence of its analysts.*
The customer of the brokerage firm may deal with the security
analysts directly, or his contact may be an indirect one via the cus-tomer’s broker. In either case the analyst is available to the clientfor a considerable amount of information and advice. Let us makean emphatic statement here. The value of the security analyst to theinvestor depends largely on the investor’s own attitude. If theinvestor asks the analyst the right questions, he is likely to get 
the right—or at least valuable—answers. The analysts hired by
brokerage houses, we are convinced, are greatly handicapped bythe general feeling that they are supposed to be market analysts as
well. When they are asked whether a given common stock is
“sound,” the question often means, “Is this stock likely to advanceduring the next few months?” As a result many of them are com-264 The Intelligent Investor
* This remains true, although many of Wall Street’s best analysts hold the
title of chartered financial analyst. The CFA certification is awarded by the
Association of Investment Management & Research (formerly the Financial
Analysts Federation) only after the candidate has completed years of rigor-ous study and passed a series of difficult exams. More than 50,000 analysts
worldwide have been certified as CFAs. Sadly, a recent survey by Professor
Stanley Block found that most CFAs ignore Graham’s teachings: Growthpotential ranks higher than quality of earnings, risks, and dividend policy in
determining P/E ratios, while far more analysts base their buy ratings on
recent price than on the long-term outlook for the company. See StanleyBlock, “A Study of Financial Analysts: Practice and Theory, ” Financial Ana-
lysts Journal, July/August, 1999, at www.aimrpubs.org. As Graham was
fond of saying, his own books have been read by—and ignored by—morepeople than any other books in finance.pelled to analyze with one eye on the stock ticker—a pose not con-
ducive to sound thinking or worthwhile conclusions.*
In the next section of this book we shall deal with some of the con-
cepts and possible achievements of security analysis. A great manyanalysts working for stock exchange firms could be of prime assis-tance to the bona fide investor who wants to be sure that he gets fullvalue for his money, and possibly a little more. As in the case of thecustomers’ brokers, what is needed at the beginning is a clear under-
standing by the analyst of the investor’s attitude and objectives. Once
the analyst is convinced that he is dealing with a man who is value-minded rather than quotation-minded, there is an excellent chance
that his recommendations will prove of real overall benefit.
The CFA Certificate for Financial Analysts
An important step was taken in 1963 toward giving professional
standing and responsibility to financial analysts. The official title ofchartered financial analyst (CFA) is now awarded to those senior
practitioners who pass required examinations and meet other testsof fitness.
1The subjects covered include security analysis and port-
folio management. The analogy with the long-established profes-
sional title of certified public accountant (CPA) is evident and
intentional. This relatively new apparatus of recognition and con-trol should serve to elevate the standards of financial analysts and
eventually to place their work on a truly professional basis.†The Investor and His Advisers 265
* It is highly unusual today for a security analyst to allow mere commoners to
contact him directly. For the most part, only the nobility of institutional investors
are permitted to approach the throne of the almighty Wall Street analyst. An indi-
vidual investor might, perhaps, have some luck calling analysts who work at“regional” brokerage firms headquartered outside of New York City. The investor
relations area at the websites of most publicly traded companies will provide a
list of analysts who follow the stock. Websites like www.zacks.com andwww.multex.com offer access to analysts’ research reports—but the intelligentinvestor should remember that most analysts do not analyze businesses.Instead, they engage in guesswork about future stock prices.† Benjamin Graham was the prime force behind the establishment of the CFAprogram, which he advocated for nearly two decades before it became a reality.Dealings with Brokerage Houses
One of the most disquieting developments of the period in
which we write this revision has been the financial embarrass-
ment—in plain words, bankruptcy or near-bankruptcy—of quite afew New York Stock Exchange firms, including at least two of con-siderable size.* This is the first time in half a century or more that
such a thing has happened, and it is startling for more than onereason. For many decades the New York Stock Exchange has been
moving in the direction of closer and stricter controls over the
operations and financial condition of its members—including min-imum capital requirements, surprise audits, and the like. Besidesthis, we have had 37 years of control over the exchanges and theirmembers by the Securities and Exchange Commission. Finally, the stock-brokerage industry itself has operated under favorable
conditions—namely, a huge increase in volume, fixed minimum
commission rates (largely eliminating competitive fees), and a lim-ited number of member firms.
The first financial troubles of the brokerage houses (in 1969)
were attributed to the increase in volume itself. This, it wasclaimed, overtaxed their facilities, increased their overhead, and
produced many troubles in making financial settlements. It should
be pointed out this was probably the first time in history thatimportant enterprises have gone broke because they had more
business than they could handle. In 1970, as brokerage failures
increased, they were blamed chiefly on “the falling off in volume.”A strange complaint when one reflects that the turnover of the266 The Intelligent Investor
* The two firms Graham had in mind were probably Du Pont, Glore, Forgan
& Co. and Goodbody & Co. Du Pont (founded by the heirs to the chemical
fortune) was saved from insolvency in 1970 only after Texas entrepreneur 
H. Ross Perot lent more than $50 million to the firm; Goodbody, the fifth-largest brokerage firm in the United States, would have failed in late 1970
had Merrill Lynch not acquired it. Hayden, Stone & Co. would also have
gone under if it had not been acquired. In 1970, no fewer than seven bro-kerage firms went bust. The farcical story of Wall Street’s frenzied over-expansion in the late 1960s is beautifully told in John Brooks’s The Go-Go
Years (John Wiley & Sons, New York, 1999).NYSE in 1970 totaled 2,937 million shares, the largest volume in its
history and well over twice as large as in any year before 1965.
During the 15 years of the bull market ending in 1964 the annual
volume had averaged “only” 712 million shares—one quarter ofthe 1970 figure—but the brokerage business had enjoyed the great-est prosperity in its history. If, as it appears, the member firms as awhole had allowed their overhead and other expenses to increaseat a rate that could not sustain even a mild reduction in volume
during part of a year, this does not speak well for either their busi-
ness acumen or their financial conservatism.
A third explanation of the financial trouble finally emerged out
of a mist of concealment, and we suspect that it is the most plausi-ble and significant of the three. It seems that a good part of the cap-ital of certain brokerage houses was held in the form of commonstocks owned by the individual partners. Some of these seem tohave been highly speculative and carried at inflated values. Whenthe market declined in 1969 the quotations of such securities fell
drastically and a substantial part of the capital of the firms van-
ished with them.
2In effect the partners were speculating with the
capital that was supposed to protect the customers against the
ordinary financial hazards of the brokerage business, in order to
make a double profit thereon. This was inexcusable; we refrainfrom saying more.
The investor should use his intelligence not only in formulating
his financial policies but also in the associated details. Theseinclude the choice of a reputable broker to execute his orders. Up to
now it was sufficient to counsel our readers to deal only with a
member of the New York Stock Exchange, unless he had com-pelling reasons to use a nonmember firm. Reluctantly, we must
add some further advice in this area. We think that people who donot carry margin accounts—and in our vocabulary this means all
nonprofessional investors —should have the delivery and receipt of
their securities handled by their bank. When giving a buying order
to your brokers you can instruct them to deliver the securitiesbought to your bank against payment therefor by the bank; con-versely, when selling you can instruct your bank to deliver thesecurities to the broker against payment of the proceeds. These ser-vices will cost a little extra but they should be well worth theexpense in terms of safety and peace of mind. This advice may beThe Investor and His Advisers 267disregarded, as no longer called for, after the investor is sure that
all the problems of stock-exchange firms have been disposed of,
but not before.*
Investment Bankers
The term “investment banker” is applied to a firm that engages
to an important extent in originating, underwriting, and sellingnew issues of stocks and bonds. (To underwrite means to guaran-
tee to the issuing corporation, or other issuer, that the security willbe fully sold.) A number of the brokerage houses carry on a certainamount of underwriting activity. Generally this is confined to par-ticipating in underwriting groups formed by leading investmentbankers. There is an additional tendency for brokerage firms to
originate and sponsor a minor amount of new-issue financing, par-
ticularly in the form of smaller issues of common stocks when abull market is in full swing.
Investment banking is perhaps the most respectable department
of the Wall Street community, because it is here that finance playsits constructive role of supplying new capital for the expansion ofindustry. In fact, much of the theoretical justification for maintain-ing active stock markets, notwithstanding their frequent specula-tive excesses, lies in the fact that organized security exchanges
facilitate the sale of new issues of bonds and stocks. If investors or
speculators could not expect to see a ready market for a new secu-rity offered them, they might well refuse to buy it.
The relationship between the investment banker and the268 The Intelligent Investor
* Nearly all brokerage transactions are now conducted electronically, and
securities are no longer physically “delivered. ” Thanks to the establishment
of the Securities Investor Protection Corporation, or SIPC, in 1970,
investors are generally assured of recovering their full account values if theirbrokerage firm becomes insolvent. SIPC is a government-mandated consor-tium of brokers; all the members agree to pool their assets to cover lossesincurred by the customers of any firm that becomes insolvent. SIPC’s pro-tection eliminates the need for investors to make payment and take deliverythrough a bank intermediary, as Graham urges.investor is basically that of the salesman to the prospective buyer.
For many years past the great bulk of the new offerings in dollar
value has consisted of bond issues that were purchased in the main
by financial institutions such as banks and insurance companies. Inthis business the security salesmen have been dealing with shrewdand experienced buyers. Hence any recommendations made by theinvestment bankers to these customers have had to pass carefuland skeptical scrutiny. Thus these transactions are almost always
effected on a businesslike footing.
But a different situation obtains in a relationship between the
individual security buyer and the investment banking firms, includ-
ing the stockbrokers acting as underwriters. Here the purchaser is
frequently inexperienced and seldom shrewd. He is easily influ-enced by what the salesman tells him, especially in the case of common-stock issues, since often his unconfessed desire in buyingis chiefly to make a quick profit. The effect of all this is that thepublic investor’s protection lies less in his own critical faculty than
in the scruples and ethics of the offering houses.
3
It is a tribute to the honesty and competence of the underwriting
firms that they are able to combine fairly well the discordant rolesof adviser and salesman. But it is imprudent for the buyer to trust
himself to the judgment of the seller. In 1959 we stated at this point: “The bad results of this unsound attitude show themselves
recurrently in the underwriting field and with notable effects in the
sale of new common stock issues during periods of active specula-tion.” Shortly thereafter this warning proved urgently needed. As
already pointed out, the years 1960–61 and, again, 1968–69 were
marked by an unprecedented outpouring of issues of lowest qual-ity, sold to the public at absurdly high offering prices and in many
cases pushed much higher by heedless speculation and some semi-manipulation. A number of the more important Wall Street houses
have participated to some degree in these less than creditable activ-
ities, which demonstrates that the familiar combination of greed,
folly, and irresponsibility has not been exorcized from the financialscene.
The intelligent investor will pay attention to the advice and rec-
ommendations received from investment banking houses, espe-cially those known by him to have an excellent reputation; but hewill be sure to bring sound and independent judgment to bearThe Investor and His Advisers 269upon these suggestions—either his own, if he is competent, or that
of some other type of adviser.*
Other Advisers
It is a good old custom, especially in the smaller towns, to con-
sult one’s local banker about investments. A commercial banker
may not be a thoroughgoing expert on security values, but he is
experienced and conservative. He is especially useful to theunskilled investor, who is often tempted to stray from the straightand unexciting path of a defensive policy and needs the steadyinginfluence of a prudent mind. The more alert and aggressiveinvestor, seeking counsel in the selection of security bargains, will
not ordinarily find the commercial banker’s viewpoint to be espe-
cially suited to his own objectives.†
We take a more critical attitude toward the widespread custom
of asking investment advice from relatives or friends. The inquireralways thinks he has good reason for assuming that the personconsulted has superior knowledge or experience. Our own obser-vation indicates that it is almost as difficult to select satisfactory layadvisers as it is to select the proper securities unaided. Much badadvice is given free.
Summary
Investors who are prepared to pay a fee for the management of
their funds may wisely select some well-established and well-
recommended investment-counsel firm. Alternatively, they mayuse the investment department of a large trust company or the
supervisory service supplied on a fee basis by a few of the leading
New York Stock Exchange houses. The results to be expected are in
no wise exceptional, but they are commensurate with those of theaverage well-informed and cautious investor.270 The Intelligent Investor
*Those who heeded Graham’s advice would not have been suckered into
buying Internet IPOs in 1999 and 2000.
† This traditional role of bankers has for the most part been supplanted byaccountants, lawyers, or financial planners.Most security buyers obtain advice without paying for it specifi-
cally. It stands to reason, therefore, that in the majority of cases they
are not entitled to and should not expect better than average results.
They should be wary of all persons, whether customers’ brokers orsecurity salesmen, who promise spectacular income or profits. Thisapplies both to the selection of securities and to guidance in the elu-sive (and perhaps illusive) art of trading in the market.
Defensive investors, as we have defined them, will not ordi-
narily be equipped to pass independent judgment on the securityrecommendations made by their advisers. But they can beexplicit—and even repetitiously so—in stating the kind of securi-
ties they want to buy. If they follow our prescription they will con-
fine themselves to high-grade bonds and the common stocks ofleading corporations, preferably those that can be purchased atindividual price levels that are not high in the light of experienceand analysis. The security analyst of any reputable stock-exchangehouse can make up a suitable list of such common stocks and can
certify to the investor whether or not the existing price level there-
for is a reasonably conservative one as judged by past experience.
The aggressive investor will ordinarily work in active coopera-
tion with his advisers. He will want their recommendationsexplained in detail, and he will insist on passing his own judgmentupon them. This means that the investor will gear his expectations
and the character of his security operations to the development of
his own knowledge and experience in the field. Only in the excep-tional case, where the integrity and competence of the advisers
have been thoroughly demonstrated, should the investor act uponthe advice of others without understanding and approving the
decision made.
There have always been unprincipled stock salesmen and fly-
by-night stock brokers, and—as a matter of course—we haveadvised our readers to confine their dealings, if possible, to mem-
bers of the New York Stock Exchange. But we are reluctantly com-
pelled to add the extra-cautious counsel that security deliveriesand payments be made through the intermediary of the investor’sbank. The distressing Wall Street brokerage-house picture mayhave cleared up completely in a few years, but in late 1971 we stillsuggest, “Better safe than sorry.”The Investor and His Advisers 271COMMENTARY ON C HAPTER 10
I feel grateful to the Milesian wench who, seeing the philoso-
pher Thales continually spending his time in contemplation of
the heavenly vault and always keeping his eyes raised upward,put something in his way to make him stumble, to warn him that it would be time to amuse his thoughts with things in theclouds when he had seen to those at his feet. Indeed she gave him or her good counsel, to look rather to himself than 
to the sky.
—Michel de Montaigne
DO YOU NEED HELP?
In the glory days of the late 1990s, many investors chose to go it alone.
By doing their own research, picking stocks themselves, and placing
their trades through an online broker, these investors bypassed WallStreet’s costly infrastructure of research, advice, and trading. Unfortu-
nately, many do-it-yourselfers asserted their independence right before
the worst bear market since the Great Depression—making them feel,in the end, that they were fools for going it alone. That’s not necessar-
ily true, of course; people who delegated every decision to a traditional
stockbroker lost money, too.
But many investors do take comfort from the experience, judgment,
and second opinion that a good financial adviser can provide. Someinvestors may need an outsider to show them what rate of return theyneed to earn on their investments, or how much extra money they
need to save, in order to meet their financial goals. Others may simplybenefit from having someone else to blame when their investments godown; that way, instead of beating yourself up in an agony of self-doubt, you get to criticize someone who typically can defend him orherself and encourage you at the same time. That may provide just thepsychological boost you need to keep investing steadily at a time
272when other investors’ hearts may fail them. All in all, just as there’s no
reason you can’t manage your own portfolio, so there’s no shame inseeking professional help in managing it.
1
How can you tell if you need a hand? Here are some signals:Big losses. If your portfolio lost more than 40% of its value from
the beginning of 2000 through the end of 2002, then you did even
worse than the dismal performance of the stock market itself. It hardlymatters whether you blew it by being lazy, reckless, or just unlucky;after such a giant loss, your portfolio is crying out for help.
Busted budgets. If you perennially struggle to make ends meet,
have no idea where your money goes, find it impossible to save on aregular schedule, and chronically fail to pay your bills on time, thenyour finances are out of control. An adviser can help you get a grip on
your money by designing a comprehensive financial plan that will out-
line how—and how much—you should spend, borrow, save, and invest.
Chaotic portfolios. All too many investors thought they were diver-
sified in the late 1990s because they owned 39 “different” Internet
stocks, or seven “different” U.S. growth-stock funds. But that’s like
thinking that an all-soprano chorus can handle singing “Old Man
River” better than a soprano soloist can. No matter how many sopra-
nos you add, that chorus will never be able to nail all those low notesuntil some baritones join the group. Likewise, if all your holdings go up
and down together, you lack the investing harmony that true diversifi-
cation brings. A professional “asset-allocation” plan can help.
Major changes. If you’ve become self-employed and need to set
up a retirement plan, your aging parents don’t have their finances inorder, or college for your kids looks unaffordable, an adviser can notonly provide peace of mind but help you make genuine improvements
in the quality of your life. What’s more, a qualified professional can
ensure that you benefit from and comply with the staggering complex-ity of the tax laws and retirement rules.
TRUST, THEN VERIFY
Remember that financial con artists thrive by talking you into trusting
them and by talking you out of investigating them. Before you placeCommentary on Chapter 10 273
1For a particularly thoughtful discussion of these issues, see Walter Upde-
grave, “Advice on Advice, ” Money, January, 2003, pp. 53–55.your financial future in the hands of an adviser, it’s imperative that you
find someone who not only makes you comfortable but whose honestyis beyond reproach. As Ronald Reagan used to say, “Trust, then ver-ify. ” Start off by thinking of the handful of people you know best andtrust the most. Then ask if they can refer you to an adviser whom they
trust and who, they feel, delivers good value for his fees. A vote of
confidence from someone you admire is a good start.
2
Once you have the name of the adviser and his firm, as well as his
specialty—is he a stockbroker? financial planner? accountant? insur-ance agent?—you can begin your due diligence. Enter the name of theadviser and his or her firm into an Internet search engine like Googleto see if anything comes up (watch for terms like “fine, ” “complaint, ”“lawsuit, ” “disciplinary action, ” or “suspension”). If the adviser is astockbroker or insurance agent, contact the office of your state’s
securities commissioner (a convenient directory of online links is at
www.nasaa.org) to ask whether any disciplinary actions or customercomplaints have been filed against the adviser.
3If you’re considering
an accountant who also functions as a financial adviser, your state’saccounting regulators (whom you can find through the National Asso-ciation of State Boards of Accountancy at www.nasba.org) will tellyou whether his or her record is clean.
Financial planners (or their firms) must register with either the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission or securities regulators in the
state where their practice is based. As part of that registration, the 
adviser must file a two-part document called Form ADV. You should beable to view and download it at www.advisorinfo.sec.gov, www.iard.
com, or the website of your state securities regulator. Pay special 
attention to the Disclosure Reporting Pages, where the adviser mustdisclose any disciplinary actions by regulators. (Because unscrupu-274 Commentary on Chapter 10
2If you’re unable to get a referral from someone you trust, you may be able
to find a fee-only financial planner through www.napfa.org (or www.feeonly.
org), whose members are generally held to high standards of service and
integrity.
3By itself, a customer complaint is not enough to disqualify an adviser from
your consideration; but a persistent pattern of complaints is. And a discipli-nary action by state or Federal regulators usually tells you to find anotheradviser. Another source for checking a broker’s record is http://pdpi.nasdr.com/PDPI.lous advisers have been known to remove those pages before hand-
ing an ADV to a prospective client, you should independently obtainyour own complete copy.) It’s a good idea to cross-check a financialplanner’s record at www.cfp-board.org, since some planners who have been disciplined outside their home state can fall through the reg-
ulatory cracks. For more tips on due diligence, see the sidebar below.Commentary on Chapter 10 275
WORDS OF WARNING
The need for due diligence doesn’t stop once you hire anadviser. Melanie Senter Lubin, securities commissioner for theState of Maryland, suggests being on guard for words andphrases that can spell trouble. If your adviser keeps sayingthem—or twisting your arm to do anything that makes youuncomfortable—“then get in touch with the authorities veryquickly, ” warns Lubin. Here’s the kind of lingo that should set offwarning bells:
“offshore”
“the opportunity of a
lifetime”
“prime bank”“This baby’s gonna
move. ”
“guaranteed”
“You need to hurry. ”“It’s a sure thing. ”“our proprietary
computer model”
“The smart money is
buying it. ”
“options strategy”“It’s a no-brainer. ”“You can’t afford not to
own it. ”
“We can beat the
market. ”
“You’ll be sorry if you
don’t . . . ”“exclusive”“You should focus on
performance, notfees. ”
“Don’t you want to be
rich?”
“can’t lose”
“The upside is huge. ”
“There’s no downside. ”
“I’m putting my mother 
in it. ”
“Trust me. ”“commodities trading”
“monthly returns”
“active asset-allocation
strategy”
“We can cap your
downside. ”
“No one else knows how
to do this. ”GETTING TO KNOW YOU
A leading financial-planning newsletter recently canvassed dozens of
advisers to get their thoughts on how you should go about interview-ing them.
4In screening an adviser, your goals should be to:
• determine whether he or she cares about helping clients, or just
goes through the motions
• establish whether he or she understands the fundamental princi-
ples of investing as they are outlined in this book
• assess whether he or she is sufficiently educated, trained, and
experienced to help you.
Here are some of the questions that prominent financial planners
recommended any prospective client should ask:
Why are you in this business? What is the mission statement of your
firm? Besides your alarm clock, what makes you get up in the morning?
What is your investing philosophy? Do you use stocks or mutual
funds? Do you use technical analysis? Do you use market timing? (A“yes” to either of the last two questions is a “no” signal to you.)
Do you focus solely on asset management, or do you also advise
on taxes, estate and retirement planning, budgeting and debt manage-
ment, and insurance? How do your education, experience, and cre-
dentials qualify you to give those kinds of financial advice?
5
What needs do your clients typically have in common? How can
you help me achieve my goals? How will you track and report myprogress? Do you provide a checklist that I can use to monitor the
implementation of any financial plan we develop?276 Commentary on Chapter 10
4Robert Veres, editor and publisher of the Inside Information newsletter,
generously shared these responses for this book. Other checklists of ques-
tions can be found at www.cfp-board.org and www.napfa.org.
5Credentials like the CFA, CFP, or CPA tell you that the adviser has taken
and passed a rigorous course of study. (Most of the other “alphabet soup”
of credentials brandished by financial planners, including the “CFM” or the“CMFC, ” signify very little.) More important, by contacting the organizationthat awards the credential, you can verify his record and check that he hasnot been disciplined for violations of rules or ethics.How do you choose investments? What investing approach do you
believe is most successful, and what evidence can you show me that
you have achieved that kind of success for your clients? What do youdo when an investment performs poorly for an entire year? (Anyadviser who answers “sell” is not worth hiring.)
Do you, when recommending investments, accept any form of com-
pensation from any third party? Why or why not? Under which circum-stances? How much, in actual dollars, do you estimate I would pay for
your services the first year? What would make that number go up ordown over time? (If fees will consume more than 1% of your assets
annually, you should probably shop for another adviser.
6)
How many clients do you have, and how often do you communicate
with them? What has been your proudest achievement for a client?
What characteristics do your favorite clients share? What’s the worst
experience you’ve had with a client, and how did you resolve it? Whatdetermines whether a client speaks to you or to your support staff?How long do clients typically stay with you?
Can I see a sample account statement? (If you can’t understand it,
ask the adviser to explain it. If you can’t understand his explanation,
he’s not right for you.)
Do you consider yourself financially successful? Why? How do you
define financial success?
How high an average annual return do you think is feasible on my
investments? (Anything over 8% to10% is unrealistic.)
Will you provide me with your résumé, your Form ADV, and at least
three references? (If the adviser or his firm is required to file an ADV,
and he will not provide you a copy, get up and leave—and keep one
hand on your wallet as you go.)
Have you ever had a formal complaint filed against you? Why did
the last client who fired you do so?Commentary on Chapter 10 277
6If you have less than $100,000 to invest, you may not be able to find a
financial adviser who will take your account. In that case, buy a diversified
basket of low-cost index funds, follow the behavioral advice throughout thisbook, and your portfolio should eventually grow to the level at which you canafford an adviser.DEFEATING YOUR OWN WORST ENEMY
Finally, bear in mind that great financial advisers do not grow on trees.
Often, the best already have as many clients as they can handle—andmay be willing to take you on only if you seem like a good match. Sothey will ask you some tough questions as well, which might include:
Why do you feel you need a financial adviser?
What are your long-term goals?
What has been your greatest frustration in dealing with other advis-
ers (including yourself)?
Do you have a budget? Do you live within your means? What per-
centage of your assets do you spend each year?
When we look back a year from now, what will I need to have
accomplished in order for you to be happy with your progress?
How do you handle conflicts or disagreements?How did you respond emotionally to the bear market that began in
2000?
What are your worst financial fears? Your greatest financial hopes?What rate of return on your investments do you consider reason-
able? (Base your answer on Chapter 3.)
An adviser who doesn’t ask questions like these—and who does
not show enough interest in you to sense intuitively what other ques-tions you consider to be the right ones—is not a good fit.
Above all else, you should trust your adviser enough to permit him
or her to protect you from your worst enemy—yourself. “You hire anadviser, ” explains commentator Nick Murray, “not to manage moneybut to manage you. ”
“If the adviser is a line of defense between you and your worst
impulsive tendencies, ” says financial-planning analyst Robert Veres,“then he or she should have systems in place that will help the two of
you control them. ” Among those systems:
•a  comprehensive financial plan that outlines how you will earn,
save, spend, borrow, and invest your money;
•a n investment policy statement that spells out your fundamental
approach to investing;
•a n asset-allocation plan that details how much money you will
keep in different investment categories.278 Commentary on Chapter 10These are the building blocks on which good financial decisions
must be founded, and they should be created mutually—by you and
the adviser—rather than imposed unilaterally. You should not invest adollar or make a decision until you are satisfied that these foundationsare in place and in accordance with your wishes.Commentary on Chapter 10 279CHAPTER 11
Security Analysis for the Lay Investor: 
General Approach
Financial analysis is now a well-established and flourishing pro-
fession, or semiprofession. The various societies of analysts that
make up the National Federation of Financial Analysts have over13,000 members, most of whom make their living out of thisbranch of mental activity. Financial analysts have textbooks, a code
of ethics, and a quarterly journal.* They also have their share of
unresolved problems. In recent years there has been a tendency toreplace the general concept of “security analysis” by that of “finan-
cial analysis.” The latter phrase has a broader implication and is
better suited to describe the work of most senior analysts on WallStreet. It would be useful to think of security analysis as limiting
itself pretty much to the examination and evaluation of stocks and
bonds, whereas financial analysis would comprise that work, plusthe determination of investment policy (portfolio selection), plus a
substantial amount of general economic analysis.
1In this chapter
we shall use whatever designation is most applicable, with chiefemphasis on the work of the security analyst proper.
The security analyst deals with the past, the present, and the
future of any given security issue. He describes the business; hesummarizes its operating results and financial position; he setsforth its strong and weak points, its possibilities and risks; he esti-
mates its future earning power under various assumptions, or as a
280* The National Federation of Financial Analysts is now the Association for
Investment Management and Research; its “quarterly” research publication,theFinancial Analysts Journal, now appears every other month.“best guess.” He makes elaborate comparisons of various compa-
nies, or of the same company at various times. Finally, he expresses
an opinion as to the safety of the issue, if it is a bond or investment-
grade preferred stock, or as to its attractiveness as a purchase, if itis a common stock.
In doing all these things the security analyst avails himself of a
number of techniques, ranging from the elementary to the mostabstruse. He may modify substantially the figures in the
company’s annual statements, even though they bear the sacred
imprimatur of the certified public accountant. He is on the lookout
particularly for items in these reports that may mean a good deal
more or less than they say.
The security analyst develops and applies standards of safety by
which we can conclude whether a given bond or preferred stock
may be termed sound enough to justify purchase for investment.These standards relate primarily to past average earnings, but theyare concerned also with capital structure, working capital, asset
values, and other matters.
In dealing with common stocks the security analyst until
recently has only rarely applied standards of value as well defined
as were his standards of safety for bonds and preferred stocks.Most of the time he contended himself with a summary of past per-formances, a more or less general forecast of the future—with par-
ticular emphasis on the next 12 months—and a rather arbitrary
conclusion. The latter was, and still is, often drawn with one eye onthe stock ticker or the market charts. In the past few years, how-
ever, much attention has been given by practicing analysts to theproblem of valuing growth stocks. Many of these have sold at such
high prices in relation to past and current earnings that those rec-
ommending them have felt a special obligation to justify their pur-
chase by fairly definite projections of expected earnings runningfairly far into the future. Certain mathematical techniques of a
rather sophisticated sort have perforce been invoked to support the
valuations arrived at.
We shall deal with these techniques, in foreshortened form, a lit-
tle later. However, we must point out a troublesome paradox here,which is that the mathematical valuations have become mostprevalent precisely in those areas where one might consider themleast reliable. For the more dependent the valuation becomes onSecurity Analysis for the Lay Investor 281anticipations of the future—and the less it is tied to a figure
demonstrated by past performance—the more vulnerable it
becomes to possible miscalculation and serious error. A large part
of the value found for a high-multiplier growth stock is derivedfrom future projections which differ markedly from past perfor-mance—except perhaps in the growth rate itself. Thus it may besaid that security analysts today find themselves compelled tobecome most mathematical and “scientific” in the very situations
which lend themselves least auspiciously to exact treatment.*
Let us proceed, nonetheless, with our discussion of the more
important elements and techniques of security analysis. The pres-ent highly condensed treatment is directed to the needs of the non-
professional investor. At the minimum he should understand whatthe security analyst is talking about and driving at; beyond that, heshould be equipped, if possible, to distinguish between superficialand sound analysis.
Security analysis for the lay investor is thought of as beginning282 The Intelligent Investor
* The higher the growth rate you project, and the longer the future period
over which you project it, the more sensitive your forecast becomes to the
slightest error. If, for instance, you estimate that a company earning $1 per
share can raise that profit by 15% a year for the next 15 years, its earningswould end up at $8.14. If the market values the company at 35 times earn-
ings, the stock would finish the period at roughly $285. But if earnings grow
at 14% instead of 15%, the company would earn $7 .14 at the end of theperiod—and, in the shock of that shortfall, investors would no longer be will-
ing to pay 35 times earnings. At, say, 20 times earnings, the stock would
end up around $140 per share, or more than 50% less. Because advancedmathematics gives the appearance of precision to the inherently iffy processof foreseeing the future, investors must be highly skeptical of anyone who
claims to hold any complex computational key to basic financial problems.
As Graham put it: “In 44 years of Wall Street experience and study, I havenever seen dependable calculations made about common-stock values, or
related investment policies, that went beyond simple arithmetic or the most
elementary algebra. Whenever calculus is brought in, or higher algebra, youcould take it as a warning signal that the operator was trying to substitutetheory for experience, and usually also to give to speculation the deceptiveguise of investment. ” (See p. 570.)with the interpretation of a company’s annual financial report. This
is a subject which we have covered for laymen in a separate book,
entitled The Interpretation of Financial Statements.2We do not con-
sider it necessary or appropriate to traverse the same ground inthis chapter, especially since the emphasis in the present book is on
principles and attitudes rather than on information and descrip-tion. Let us pass on to two basic questions underlying the selection
of investments. What are the primary tests of safety of a corporatebond or preferred stock? What are the chief factors entering intothe valuation of a common stock?
Bond Analysis
The most dependable and hence the most respectable branch of
security analysis concerns itself with the safety, or quality, of bondissues and investment-grade preferred stocks. The chief criterion
used for corporate bonds is the number of times that total interestcharges have been covered by available earnings for some years inthe past. In the case of preferred stocks, it is the number of timesthat bond interest and preferred dividends combined have beencovered.
The exact standards applied will vary with different authorities.
Since the tests are at bottom arbitrary, there is no way to determineprecisely the most suitable criteria. In the 1961 revision of our text-book, Security Analysis, we recommend certain “coverage” stan-
dards, which appear in Table 11-1.*
Our basic test is applied only to the average results for a period
of years. Other authorities require also that a minimum coverage be
shown for every year considered. We approve a “poorest-year” testSecurity Analysis for the Lay Investor 283
* In 1972, an investor in corporate bonds had little choice but to assemble
his or her own portfolio. Today, roughly 500 mutual funds invest in corporate
bonds, creating a convenient, well-diversified bundle of securities. Since it is
not feasible to build a diversified bond portfolio on your own unless youhave at least $100,000, the typical intelligent investor will be best off simplybuying a low-cost bond fund and leaving the painstaking labor of creditresearch to its managers. For more on bond funds, see the commentary onChapter 4.as an alternative to the seven-year-average test; it would be suffi-
cient if the bond or preferred stock met either of these criteria.
It may be objected that the large increase in bond interest rates
since 1961 would justify some offsetting reduction in the coverage
of charges required. Obviously it would be much harder for anindustrial company to show a seven-times coverage of interestcharges at 8% than at 4
1⁄2%. To meet this changed situation we now
suggest an alternative requirement related to the percent earned on284 The Intelligent Investor
TABLE 11-1 Recommended Minimum “Coverage” for Bonds
and Preferred Stocks
A. For Investment-grade Bonds
Minimum Ratio of Earnings to Total Fixed Charges:
Before Income Taxes After Income Taxes
Average Alternative: Average Alternative:
Type of of Past Measured by of Past Measured by
enterprise 7 Years “Poorest Year” 7 Years “Poorest Year”
Public-utility
operating
company 4 times 3 times 2.65 times 2.10 times
Railroad 5 4 3.20 2.65
Industrial 7 5 4.30 3.20
Retail concern 5 4 3.20 2.65
B.For Investment-grade Preferred Stocks
The same minimum figures as above are required to be shown by the
ratio of earnings before income taxes to the sum of fixed charges plus
twice preferred dividends.
NOTE: The inclusion of twice the preferred dividends allows for the fact
that preferred dividends are not income-tax deductible, whereasinterest charges are so deductible.
C.Other Categories of Bonds and Preferreds
The standards given above are not applicable to (1) public-utility hold-ing companies, (2) financial companies, (3) real-estate companies.Requirements for these special groups are omitted here.theprincipal amount of the debt. These figures might be 33% before
taxes for an industrial company, 20% for a public utility, and 25%
for a railroad. It should be borne in mind here that the rate actually
paid by most companies on their total debt is considerably lessthan the current 8% figures, since they have the benefit of olderissues bearing lower coupons. The “poorest year” requirementcould be set at about two-thirds of the seven-year requirement.
In addition to the earnings-coverage test, a number of others are
generally applied. These include the following:
1.Size of Enterprise. There is a minimum standard in terms of
volume of business for a corporation—varying as between indus-trials, utilities, and railroads—and of population for a municipality.
2.Stock/Equity Ratio. This is the ratio of the market price of the
junior stock issues* to the total face amount of the debt, or the debtplus preferred stock. It is a rough measure of the protection, or “cush-ion,” afforded by the presence of a junior investment that must firstbear the brunt of unfavorable developments. This factor includes themarket’s appraisal of the future prospects of the enterprise.
3.Property Value. The asset values, as shown on the balance sheet
or as appraised, were formerly considered the chief security andprotection for a bond issue. Experience has shown that in most
cases safety resides in the earning power, and if this is deficient the
assets lose most of their reputed value. Asset values, however,retain importance as a separate test of ample security for bonds
and preferred stocks in three enterprise groups: public utilities
(because rates may depend largely on the property investment),real-estate concerns, and investment companies.
At this point the alert investor should ask, “How dependable are
tests of safety that are measured by past and present performance,
in view of the fact that payment of interest and principal depends
upon what the future will bring forth?” The answer can be foundedSecurity Analysis for the Lay Investor 285
* By “junior stock issues” Graham means shares of common stock. Pre-
ferred stock is considered “senior” to common stock because the companymust pay all dividends on the preferred before paying any dividends on thecommon.only on experience. Investment history shows that bonds and pre-
ferred stocks that have met stringent tests of safety, based on the
past, have in the great majority of cases been able to face the vicissi-
tudes of the future successfully. This has been strikingly demon-strated in the major field of railroad bonds—a field that has beenmarked by a calamitous frequency of bankruptcies and seriouslosses. In nearly every case the roads that got into trouble had longbeen overbonded, had shown an inadequate coverage of fixed
charges in periods of average prosperity, and would thus have been
ruled out by investors who applied strict tests of safety. Conversely,practically every road that has met such tests has escaped financial
embarrassment. Our premise was strikingly vindicated by the
financial history of the numerous railroads reorganized in the 1940sand in 1950. All of these, with one exception, started their careerswith fixed charges reduced to a point where the current coverage offixed-interest requirements was ample, or at least respectable. Theexception was the New Haven Railroad, which in its reorganization
year, 1947, earned its new charges only about 1.1 times. In conse-
quence, while all the other roads were able to come through ratherdifficult times with solvency unimpaired, the New Haven relapsed
into trusteeship (for the third time) in 1961.
In Chapter 17 below we shall consider some aspects of the bank-
ruptcy of the Penn Central Railroad, which shook the financialcommunity in 1970. An elementary fact in this case was that the
coverage of fixed charges did not meet conservative standards asearly as 1965; hence a prudent bond investor would have avoided
or disposed of the bond issues of the system long before its finan-cial collapse.
Our observations on the adequacy of the past record to judge
future safety apply, and to an even greater degree, to the public
utilities, which constitute a major area for bond investment.Receivership of a soundly capitalized (electric) utility company or
system is almost impossible. Since Securities and Exchange Com-
mission control was instituted,* along with the breakup of most of286 The Intelligent Investor
* After investors lost billions of dollars on the shares of recklessly assem-
bled utility companies in 1929–1932, Congress authorized the SEC to reg-ulate the issuance of utility stocks under the Public Utility Holding CompanyAct of 1935.the holding-company systems, public-utility financing has been
sound and bankruptcies unknown. The financial troubles of elec-
tric and gas utilities in the 1930s were traceable almost 100% to
financial excesses and mismanagement, which left their imprintclearly on the companies’ capitalization structures. Simple butstringent tests of safety, therefore, would have warned the investoraway from the issues that were later to default.
Among industrial bond issues the long-term record has been
different. Although the industrial group as a whole has shown abetter growth of earning power than either the railroads or the util-ities, it has revealed a lesser degree of inherent stability for individ-
ual companies and lines of business. Thus in the past, at least, there
have been persuasive reasons for confining the purchase of indus-trial bonds and preferred stocks to companies that not only are ofmajor size but also have shown an ability in the past to withstand aserious depression.
Few defaults of industrial bonds have occurred since 1950, but
this fact is attributable in part to the absence of a major depressionduring this long period. Since 1966 there have been adverse devel-opments in the financial position of many industrial companies.
Considerable difficulties have developed as the result of unwise
expansion. On the one hand this has involved large additions toboth bank loans and long-term debt; on the other it has frequently
produced operating losses instead of the expected profits. At the
beginning of 1971 it was calculated that in the past seven years theinterest payments of all nonfinancial firms had grown from $9.8
billion in 1963 to $26.1 billion in 1970, and that interest paymentshad taken 29% of the aggregate profits before interest and taxes in
1971, against only 16% in 1963.
3Obviously, the burden on many
individual firms had increased much more than this. Overbonded
companies have become all too familiar. There is every reason to
repeat the caution expressed in our 1965 edition:
We are not quite ready to suggest that the investor may count
on an indefinite continuance of this favorable situation, and hence
relax his standards of bond selection in the industrial or any othergroup.Security Analysis for the Lay Investor 287Common-Stock Analysis
The ideal form of common-stock analysis leads to a valuation of
the issue which can be compared with the current price to deter-
mine whether or not the security is an attractive purchase. This val-uation, in turn, would ordinarily be found by estimating theaverage earnings over a period of years in the future and then mul-
tiplying that estimate by an appropriate “capitalization factor.”
The now-standard procedure for estimating future earning
power starts with average past data for physical volume, prices
received, and operating margin. Future sales in dollars are then
projected on the basis of assumptions as to the amount of change involume and price level over the previous base. These estimates, inturn, are grounded first on general economic forecasts of grossnational product, and then on special calculations applicable to the
industry and company in question.
An illustration of this method of valuation may be taken from
our 1965 edition and brought up to date by adding the sequel. TheValue Line, a leading investment service, makes forecasts of future
earnings and dividends by the procedure outlined above, and thenderives a figure of “price potentiality” (or projected market value)
by applying a valuation formula to each issue based largely on cer-
tain past relationships. In Table 11-2 we reproduce the projectionsfor 1967–1969 made in June 1964, and compare them with the earn-
ings, and average market price actually realized in 1968 (which
approximates the 1967–1969 period).
The combined forecasts proved to be somewhat on the low side,
but not seriously so. The corresponding predictions made six years
before had turned out to be overoptimistic on earnings and divi-
dends; but this had been offset by use of a low multiplier, with the
result that the “price potentiality” figure proved to be about the
same as the actual average price for 1963.
The reader will note that quite a number of the individual fore-
casts were wide of the mark. This is an instance in support of ourgeneral view that composite or group estimates are likely to be agood deal more dependable than those for individual companies.Ideally, perhaps, the security analyst should pick out the three orfour companies whose future he thinks he knows the best, and con-centrate his own and his clients’ interest on what he forecasts for288 The Intelligent InvestorSecurity Analysis for the Lay Investor 289
TABLE 11-2 The Dow Jones Industrial Average
(The Value Line’s Forecast for 1967–1969 (Made in Mid-1964) Compared
With Actual Results in 1968)
Earnings Price Price Average
Forecast Actual June 30 Forecast Price
1967–1969 1968a1964 1967–1969 1968a
Allied Chemical $3.70 $1.46 541⁄2 67 361⁄2
Aluminum Corp. of Am. 3.85 4.75 711⁄2 85 79
American Can 3.50 4.25 47 57 48
American Tel. & Tel. 4.00 3.75 731⁄2 68 53
American Tobacco 3.00 4.38 511⁄2 33 37
Anaconda 6.00 8.12 441⁄2 70 106
Bethlehem Steel 3.25 3.55 361⁄2 45 31
Chrysler 4.75 6.23 481⁄2 45 60
Du Pont 8.50 7.82 253 240 163Eastman Kodak 5.00 9.32 133 100 320General Electric 4.50 3.95 80 90 90
1⁄2
General Foods 4.70 4.16 88 71 841⁄2
General Motors 6.25 6.02 88 78 811⁄2
Goodyear Tire 3.25 4.12 43 43 54Internat. Harvester 5.75 5.38 82 63 69Internat. Nickel 5.20 3.86 79 83 76
Internat. Paper 2.25 2.04 32 36 33
Johns Manville 4.00 4.78 57
1⁄2 54 711⁄2
Owens-Ill. Glass 5.25 6.20 99 100 1251⁄2
Procter & Gamble 4.20 4.30 83 70 91Sears Roebuck 4.70 5.46 118 78 122
1⁄2
Standard Oil of Cal. 5.25 5.59 641⁄2 60 67
Standard Oil of N.J. 6.00 5.94 87 73 76Swift & Co. 3.85 3.41
b54 50 57
Texaco 5.50 6.04 791⁄2 70 81
Union Carbide 7.35 5.20 1261⁄2 165 90
United Aircraft 4.00 7.65 491⁄2 50 106
U.S. Steel 4.50 4.69 571⁄2 60 42
Westinghouse Elec. 3.25 3.49 301⁄2 50 69
Woolworth 2.25 2.29 291⁄2 32 291⁄2
Total 138.25 149.20 2222 2186 2450
DJIA (Total % 2.67) 52.00 56.00 832 820 918c
DJIA Actual 1968 57.89 906c
DJIA Actual 1967–1969 56.26
aAdjusted for stock-splits since 1964.
bAverage 1967–1969.
cDifference due to changed divisor.them. Unfortunately, it appears to be almost impossible to distin-
guish in advance between those individual forecasts which can be
relied upon and those which are subject to a large chance of error.
At bottom, this is the reason for the wide diversification practicedby the investment funds. For it is undoubtedly better to concen-trate on one stock that you know is going to prove highly profitable,
rather than dilute your results to a mediocre figure, merely fordiversification’s sake. But this is not done, because it cannot be
done dependably.
4The prevalence of wide diversification is in itself
a pragmatic repudiation of the fetish of “selectivity,” to which WallStreet constantly pays lip service.*
Factors Affecting the Capitalization Rate
Though average future earnings are supposed to be the chief
determinant of value, the security analyst takes into account anumber of other factors of a more or less definite nature. Most of
these will enter into his capitalization rate, which can vary over awide range, depending upon the “quality” of the stock issue. Thus,
although two companies may have the same figure of expected290 The Intelligent Investor
* In more recent years, most mutual funds have almost robotically mimicked
the Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index, lest any different holdings cause
their returns to deviate from that of the index. In a countertrend, some fund
companies have launched what they call “focused” portfolios, which own 25to 50 stocks that the managers declare to be their “best ideas. ” That leaves
investors wondering whether the other funds run by the same managers
contain their worst ideas. Considering that most of the “best idea” funds donot markedly outperform the averages, investors are also entitled to wonder
whether the managers’ ideas are even worth having in the first place. For
indisputably skilled investors like Warren Buffett, wide diversification wouldbe foolish, since it would water down the concentrated force of a few great
ideas. But for the typical fund manager or individual investor, notdiversifying
is foolish, since it is so difficult to select a limited number of stocks that will
include most winners and exclude most losers. As you own more stocks, thedamage any single loser can cause will decline, and the odds of owning allthe big winners will rise. The ideal choice for most investors is a total stockmarket index fund, a low-cost way to hold every stock worth owning.earnings per share in 1973–1975—say $4—the analyst may value
one as low as 40 and the other as high as 100. Let us deal briefly
with some of the considerations that enter into these divergent
multipliers.
1.General Long-Term Prospects. No one really knows anything
about what will happen in the distant future, but analysts andinvestors have strong views on the subject just the same. Theseviews are reflected in the substantial differentials between theprice/earnings ratios of individual companies and of industrygroups. At this point we added in our 1965 edition:
For example, at the end of 1963 the chemical companies in the
DJIA were selling at considerably higher multipliers than the oil
companies, indicating stronger confidence in the prospects of the
former than of the latter. Such distinctions made by the market areoften soundly based, but when dictated mainly by past perfor-
mance they are as likely to be wrong as right.
We shall supply here, in Table 11-3, the 1963 year-end material
on the chemical and oil company issues in the DJIA, and carry their
earnings to the end of 1970. It will be seen that the chemical compa-
nies, despite their high multipliers, made practically no gain inearnings in the period after 1963. The oil companies did much bet-
ter than the chemicals and about in line with the growth implied in
their 1963 multipliers.
5Thus our chemical-stock example proved to
be one of the cases in which the market multipliers were proven
wrong.*Security Analysis for the Lay Investor 291
* Graham’s point about chemical and oil companies in the 1960s applies to
nearly every industry in nearly every time period. Wall Street’s consensus
view of the future for any given sector is usually either too optimistic or too
pessimistic. Worse, the consensus is at its most cheery just when thestocks are most overpriced—and gloomiest just when they are cheapest.The most recent example, of course, is technology and telecommunicationsstocks, which hit record highs when their future seemed brightest in 1999and early 2000, and then crashed all the way through 2002. History provesthat Wall Street’s “expert” forecasters are equally inept at predicting theTABLE 11-3 Performance of Chemical and Oil Stocks in the DJIA, 1970 versus 1964
1963 1970
Closing Earned P/E Closing Earned P/E
Price Per Share Ratio Price Per Shar e Ratio
Chemical companies:
Allied Chemical 55 2.77 19.8 /H11003 241⁄8 1.56 15.5 /H11003
Du Ponta77 6.55 23.5 1331⁄2 6.76 19.8
Union Carbideb601⁄4 2.66 22.7 40 2.60 15.4
25.3 ave.
Oil companies:
Standard Oil of Cal. 591⁄2 4.50 13.2 /H11003 541⁄2 5.36 10.2 /H11003
Standard Oil of N.J. 76 4.74 16.0 731⁄2 5.90 12.4
Texacob35 2.15 16.3 35 3.02 11.6
15.3 ave.
a1963 figures adjusted for distribution of General Motors shar es.
b1963 figures adjusted for subsequent stock splits.2.Management. On Wall Street a great deal is constantly said on
this subject, but little that is really helpful. Until objective, quantita-
tive, and reasonably reliable tests of managerial competence are
devised and applied, this factor will continue to be looked atthrough a fog. It is fair to assume that an outstandingly successfulcompany has unusually good management. This will have shownitself already in the past record; it will show up again in the esti-mates for the next five years, and once more in the previously dis-
cussed factor of long-term prospects. The tendency to count it still
another time as a separate bullish consideration can easily lead toexpensive overvaluations. The management factor is most useful,
we think, in those cases in which a recent change has taken place
that has not yet had the time to show its significance in the actualfigures.
Two spectacular occurrences of this kind were associated with
the Chrysler Motor Corporation. The first took place as far back as1921, when Walter Chrysler took command of the almost mori-
bund Maxwell Motors, and in a few years made it a large and
highly profitable enterprise, while numerous other automobilecompanies were forced out of business. The second happened as
recently as 1962, when Chrysler had fallen far from its once high
estate and the stock was selling at its lowest price in many years.Then new interests, associated with Consolidation Coal, took over
the reins. The earnings advanced from the 1961 figure of $1.24 per
share to the equivalent of $17 in 1963, and the price rose from a lowof 38
1⁄2in 1962 to the equivalent of nearly 200 the very next year.6
3.Financial Strength and Capital Structure. Stock of a company
with a lot of surplus cash and nothing ahead of the common is
clearly a better purchase (at the same price) than another one with
the same per share earnings but large bank loans and senior securi-ties. Such factors are properly and carefully taken into account by
security analysts. A modest amount of bonds or preferred stock,Security Analysis for the Lay Investor 293
performance of 1) the market as a whole, 2) industry sectors, and 3) spe-
cific stocks. As Graham points out, the odds that individual investors can doany better are not good. The intelligent investor excels by making decisionsthat are not dependent on the accuracy of anybody’s forecasts, includinghis or her own. (See Chapter 8.)however, is not necessarily a disadvantage to the common, nor is
the moderate use of seasonal bank credit. (Incidentally, a top-heavy
structure—too little common stock in relation to bonds and pre-
ferred—may under favorable conditions make for a huge specula-
tiveprofit in the common. This is the factor known as “leverage.”)
4.Dividend Record. One of the most persuasive tests of high qual-
ity is an uninterrupted record of dividend payments going backover many years. We think that a record of continuous dividendpayments for the last 20 years or more is an important plus factorin the company’s quality rating. Indeed the defensive investormight be justified in limiting his purchases to those meeting this
test.
5.Current Dividend Rate. This, our last additional factor, is the
most difficult one to deal with in satisfactory fashion. Fortunately,the majority of companies have come to follow what may be called
a standard dividend policy. This has meant the distribution of
about two-thirds of their average earnings, except that in the recent
period of high profits and inflationary demands for more capitalthe figure has tended to be lower. (In 1969 it was 59.5% for the
stocks in the Dow Jones average, and 55% for all American corpo-
rations.)* Where the dividend bears a normal relationship to theearnings, the valuation may be made on either basis without sub-
stantially affecting the result. For example, a typical secondary
company with expected average earnings of $3 and an expecteddividend of $2 may be valued at either 12 times its earnings or 18
times its dividend, to yield a value of 36 in both cases.
However, an increasing number of growth companies are
departing from the once standard policy of paying out 60% ormore of earnings in dividends, on the grounds that the sharehold-294 The Intelligent Investor
* This figure, now known as the “dividend payout ratio, ” has dropped consid-
erably since Graham’s day as American tax law discouraged investors from
seeking, and corporations from paying, dividends. As of year-end 2002, the
payout ratio stood at 34.1% for the S & P 500-stock index and, as recentlyas April 2000, it hit an all-time low of just 25.3%. (See www.barra.com/research/fundamentals.asp.) We discuss dividend policy more thoroughly inthe commentary on Chapter 19.ers’ interests will be better served by retaining nearly all the profits
to finance expansion. The issue presents problems and requires
careful distinctions. We have decided to defer our discussion of the
vital question of proper dividend policy to a later section—Chapter19—where we shall deal with it as a part of the general problem ofmanagement-shareholder relations.
Capitalization Rates for Growth Stocks
Most of the writing of security analysts on formal appraisals
relates to the valuation of growth stocks. Our study of the various
methods has led us to suggest a foreshortened and quite simple
formula for the valuation of growth stocks, which is intended toproduce figures fairly close to those resulting from the morerefined mathematical calculations. Our formula is:
Value = Current (Normal) Earnings /H11003(8.5 plus twice 
the expected annual growth rate)
The growth figure should be that expected over the next seven to
ten years.
7
In Table 11-4 we show how our formula works out for various
rates of assumed growth. It is easy to make the converse calcula-tion and to determine what rate of growth is anticipated by the cur-
rent market price, assuming our formula is valid. In our lastedition we made that calculation for the DJIA and for six important
stock issues. These figures are reproduced in Table 11-5. We com-
mented at the time:
The difference between the implicit 32.4% annual growth rate
for Xerox and the extremely modest 2.8% for General Motors is
indeed striking. It is explainable in part by the stock market’s feel-
ing that General Motors’ 1963 earnings—the largest for any corpo-ration in history—can be maintained with difficulty and exceeded
only modestly at best. The price earnings ratio of Xerox, on the
other hand, is quite representative of speculative enthusiasm fas-tened upon a company of great achievement and perhaps stillgreater promise.
The implicit or expected growth rate of 5.1% for the DJIA com-Security Analysis for the Lay Investor 295TABLE 11-4 Annual Earnings Multipliers Based on Expected Growth Rates, 
Based on a Simplified Formula
Expected growth rate 0.0% 2.5% 5.0% 7.2% 10.0% 14.3% 20.0%
Growth in 10 years 0.0 28.0% 63.0% 100.0% 159.0% 280.0% 319.0%
Multiplier of current earnings 8.5 13.5 18.5 22.9 28.5 37.1 48.5
TABLE 11-5 Implicit or Expected Growth Rates, December 1963 and December 1969
ProjectedaEarned Actual Annual Projecteda
P/E Ratio, Growth Rate, Per Share Growth, P/E Ratio, Growth Rate,
Issue 1963 1963 1963 1969 1963–1969 1969 1969
American Tel. & Tel. 23.0 /H11003 7.3% 3.03 4.00 4.75% 12.2 /H11003 1.8%
General Electric 29.0 10.3 3.00 3.79b4.0 20.4 6.0
General Motors 14.1 2.8 5.55 5.95 1.17 11.6 1.6
IBM 38.5 15.0 3.48c8.21 16.0 44.4 17.9
International Harvester 13.2 2.4 2.29c2.30 0.1 10.8 1.1
Xerox 25.0 32.4 .38c2.08 29.2 50.8 21.2
DJIA 18.6 5.1 41.11 57.02 5.5 14.0 2.8
aBased on formula on p. 295.
bAverage of 1968 and 1970, since 1969 earnings were reduced by strike.
cAdjusted for stock splits.pares with an actual annual increase of 3.4% (compounded)
between 1951–1953 and 1961–1963.
We should have added a caution somewhat as follows: The val-
uations of expected high-growth stocks are necessarily on the low
side, if we were to assume these growth rates will actually be real-ized. In fact, according to the arithmetic, if a company could beassumed to grow at a rate of 8% or more indefinitely in the future its
value would be infinite, and no price would be too high to pay for
the shares. What the valuer actually does in these cases is to intro-duce a margin of safety into his calculations—somewhat as an engi-
neer does in his specifications for a structure. On this basis thepurchases would realize his assigned objective (in 1963, a future
overall return of 7
1⁄2% per annum) even if the growth rate actually
realized proved substantially less than that projected in the for-
mula. Of course, then, if that rate were actually realized theinvestor would be sure to enjoy a handsome additional return.
There is really no way of valuing a high-growth company (with 
an expected rate above, say, 8% annually), in which the analyst can make realistic assumptions of both the proper multiplier for 
the current earnings and the expectable multiplier for the future
earnings.
As it happened the actual growth for Xerox and IBM proved
very close to the high rates implied from our formula. As just
explained, this fine showing inevitably produced a large advancein the price of both issues. The growth of the DJIA itself was also
about as projected by the 1963 closing market price. But the moder-
ate rate of 5% did not involve the mathematical dilemma of Xeroxand IBM. It turned out that the 23% price rise to the end of 1970,
plus the 28% in aggregate dividend return received, gave not far
from the 7
1⁄2% annual overall gain posited in our formula. In the
case of the other four companies it may suffice to say that theirgrowth did not equal the expectations implied in the 1963 priceand that their quotations failed to rise as much as the DJIA. Warn-
ing: This material is supplied for illustrative purposes only, and
because of the inescapable necessity in security analysis to projectthe future growth rate for most companies studied. Let the readernot be misled into thinking that such projections have any highdegree of reliability or, conversely, that future prices can beSecurity Analysis for the Lay Investor 297counted on to behave accordingly as the prophecies are realized,
surpassed, or disappointed.
We should point out that any “scientific,” or at least reasonably
dependable, stock evaluation based on anticipated future resultsmust take future interest rates into account. A given schedule ofexpected earnings, or dividends, would have a smaller presentvalue if we assume a higher than if we assume a lower intereststructure.* Such assumptions have always been difficult to make
with any degree of confidence, and the recent violent swings in
long-term interest rates render forecasts of this sort almost pre-sumptuous. Hence we have retained our old formula above, sim-
ply because no new one would appear more plausible.
Industry Analysis
Because the general prospects of the enterprise carry major
weight in the establishment of market prices, it is natural for thesecurity analyst to devote a great deal of attention to the economic
position of the industry and of the individual company in itsindustry. Studies of this kind can go into unlimited detail. They are
sometimes productive of valuable insights into important factors
that will be operative in the future and are insufficiently appreci-ated by the current market. Where a conclusion of that kind can be
drawn with a fair degree of confidence, it affords a sound basis for
investment decisions.
Our own observation, however, leads us to minimize some-
what the practical value of most of the industry studies that are
made available to investors. The material developed is ordinarily
of a kind with which the public is already fairly familiar and that
has already exerted considerable influence on market quotations.298 The Intelligent Investor
* Why is this? By “the rule of 72, ” at 10% interest a given amount of money
doubles in just over seven years, while at 7% it doubles in just over 10 years.
When interest rates are high, the amount of money you need to set aside 
today to reach a given value in the future is lower —since those high interest
rates will enable it to grow at a more rapid rate. Thus a rise in interest ratestoday makes a future stream of earnings or dividends less valuable—since the alternative of investing in bonds has become relatively more attractive.Rarely does one find a brokerage-house study that points out, 
with a convincing array of facts, that a popular industry is head-
ing for a fall or that an unpopular one is due to prosper. Wall
Street’s view of the longer future is notoriously fallible, and thisnecessarily applies to that important part of its investigationswhich is directed toward the forecasting of the course of profits invarious industries.
We must recognize, however, that the rapid and pervasive
growth of technology in recent years is not without major effect onthe attitude and the labors of the security analyst. More so than inthe past, the progress or retrogression of the typical company in the
coming decade may depend on its relation to new products and
new processes, which the analyst may have a chance to study andevaluate in advance. Thus there is doubtless a promising area for
effective work by the analyst, based on field trips, interviews with
research men, and on intensive technological investigation on his
own. There are hazards connected with investment conclusions
derived chiefly from such glimpses into the future, and not sup-
ported by presently demonstrable value. Yet there are perhapsequal hazards in sticking closely to the limits of value set by sober
calculations resting on actual results. The investor cannot have it
both ways. He can be imaginative and play for the big profits thatare the reward for vision proved sound by the event; but then he
must run a substantial risk of major or minor miscalculation. Or he
can be conservative, and refuse to pay more than a minor premiumfor possibilities as yet unproved; but in that case he must be pre-
pared for the later contemplation of golden opportunities foregone.
A Two-Part Appraisal Process
Let us return for a moment to the idea of valuation or appraisal
of a common stock, which we began to discuss above on p. 288. Agreat deal of reflection on the subject has led us to conclude that
this better be done quite differently than is now the establishedpractice. We suggest that analysts work out first what we call the“past-performance value,” which is based solely on the pastrecord. This would indicate what the stock would be worth—absolutely, or as a percentage of the DJIA or of the S & P compos-ite—if it is assumed that its relative past performance will continueSecurity Analysis for the Lay Investor 299unchanged in the future. (This includes the assumption that its rel-
ative growth rate, as shown in the last seven years, will also con-
tinue unchanged over the next seven years.) This process could be
carried out mechanically by applying a formula that gives individ-ual weights to past figures for profitability, stability, and growth,and also for current financial condition. The second part of theanalysis should consider to what extent the value based solely onpast performance should be modified because of new conditions
expected in the future.
Such a procedure would divide the work between senior and
junior analysts as follows: (1) The senior analyst would set up theformula to apply to all companies generally for determining past-
performance value. (2) The junior analysts would work up suchfactors for the designated companies—pretty much in mechanicalfashion. (3) The senior analyst would then determine to whatextent a company’s performance—absolute or relative—is likely todiffer from its past record, and what change should be made in 
the value to reflect such anticipated changes. It would be best if the
senior analyst’s report showed both the original valuation and themodified one, with his reasons for the change.
Is a job of this kind worth doing? Our answer is in the affirma-
tive, but our reasons may appear somewhat cynical to the reader.We doubt whether the valuations so reached will prove sufficiently
dependable in the case of the typical industrial company, great or
small. We shall illustrate the difficulties of this job in our discus-sion of Aluminum Company of America (ALCOA) in the next
chapter. Nonetheless it should be done for such common stocks.Why? First, many security analysts are bound to make current or
projected valuations, as part of their daily work. The method we
propose should be an improvement on those generally followed
today. Secondly, because it should give useful experience andinsight to the analysts who practice this method. Thirdly, because
work of this kind could produce an invaluable body of recorded
experience—as has long been the case in medicine—that may leadto better methods of procedure and a useful knowledge of its pos-sibilities and limitations. The public-utility stocks might wellprove an important area in which this approach will show realpragmatic value. Eventually the intelligent analyst will confinehimself to those groups in which the future appears reasonably300 The Intelligent Investorpredictable,* or where the margin of safety of past-performance
value over current price is so large that he can take his chances on
future variations—as he does in selecting well-secured senior secu-
rities.
In subsequent chapters we shall supply concrete examples of
the application of analytical techniques. But they will only be illus-trations. If the reader finds the subject interesting he should pursueit systematically and thoroughly before he considers himself quali-
fied to pass a final buy-or-sell judgment of his own on a security
issue.Security Analysis for the Lay Investor 301
* These industry groups, ideally, would not be overly dependent on such
unforeseeable factors as fluctuating interest rates or the future direction ofprices for raw materials like oil or metals. Possibilities might be industrieslike gaming, cosmetics, alcoholic beverages, nursing homes, or waste man-agement.COMMENTARY ON C HAPTER 11
“Would you tell me, please, which way I ought to go from
here?”
“That depends a good deal on where you want to get to, ” said
the Cat.
—Lewis Carroll, Alice’s Adventures in Wonderland
Putting a Price on the Future
Which factors determine how much you should be willing to pay for a
stock? What makes one company worth 10 times earnings and
another worth 20 times? How can you be reasonably sure that you arenot overpaying for an apparently rosy future that turns out to be a
murky nightmare?
Graham feels that five elements are decisive.
1He summarizes them as:
• the company’s “general long-term prospects”
• the quality of its management
• its financial strength and capital structure
• its dividend record• and its current dividend rate.
Let’s look at these factors in the light of today’s market.The long-term prospects. Nowadays, the intelligent investor
should begin by downloading at least five years’ worth of annualreports (Form 10-K) from the company’s website or from the EDGAR
3021Because so few of today’s individual investors buy—or should buy—individ-
ual bonds, we will limit this discussion to stock analysis. For more on bond
funds, see the commentary on Chapter 4.database at www.sec.gov.2Then comb through the financial state-
ments, gathering evidence to help you answer two overriding ques-
tions. What makes this company grow? Where do (and where will) itsprofits come from? Among the problems to watch for:
• The company is a “serial acquirer. ” An average of more than two
or three acquisitions a year is a sign of potential trouble. After all,
if the company itself would rather buy the stock of other busi-nesses than invest in its own, shouldn’t you take the hint and lookelsewhere too? And check the company’s track record as an
acquirer. Watch out for corporate bulimics—firms that wolf down
big acquisitions, only to end up vomiting them back out. Lucent,Mattel, Quaker Oats, and Tyco International are among the com-
panies that have had to disgorge acquisitions at sickening losses.
Other firms take chronic write-offs, or accounting charges provingthat they overpaid for their past acquisitions. That’s a bad omen
for future deal making.
3
• The company is an OPM addict, borrowing debt or selling stock
to raise boatloads of Other People’s Money. These fat infusions of
OPM are labeled “cash from financing activities” on the statementof cash flows in the annual report. They can make a sick company
appear to be growing even if its underlying businesses are notgenerating enough cash—as Global Crossing and WorldComshowed not long ago.
4Commentary on Chapter 11 303
2You should also get at least one year’s worth of quarterly reports (on Form
10-Q). By definition, we are assuming that you are an “enterprising” investor
willing to devote a considerable amount of effort to your portfolio. If the
steps in this chapter sound like too much work to you, then you are not tem-peramentally well suited to picking your own stocks. You cannot reliably
obtain the results you imagine unless you put in the kind of effort we
describe.
3You can usually find details on acquisitions in the “Management’s Discus-
sion and Analysis” section of Form 10-K; cross-check it against the foot-notes to the financial statements. For more on “serial acquirers, ” see thecommentary on Chapter 12.
4To determine whether a company is an OPM addict, read the “Statement
of Cash Flows” in the financial statements. This page breaks down the• The company is a Johnny-One-Note, relying on one customer (or
a handful) for most of its revenues. In October 1999, fiber-optics
maker Sycamore Networks, Inc. sold stock to the public for thefirst time. The prospectus revealed that one customer, WilliamsCommunications, accounted for 100% of Sycamore’s $11 million
in total revenues. Traders blithely valued Sycamore’s shares at$15 billion. Unfortunately, Williams went bankrupt just over two
years later. Although Sycamore picked up other customers, its
stock lost 97% between 2000 and 2002.
As you study the sources of growth and profit, stay on the lookout
for positives as well as negatives. Among the good signs:
• The company has a wide “moat, ” or competitive advantage. Like
castles, some companies can easily be stormed by marauding
competitors, while others are almost impregnable. Several forces
can widen a company’s moat: a strong brand identity (think of
Harley Davidson, whose buyers tattoo the company’s logo onto
their bodies); a monopoly or near-monopoly on the market;
economies of scale, or the ability to supply huge amounts of goods
or services cheaply (consider Gillette, which churns out razorblades by the billion); a unique intangible asset (think of Coca-
Cola, whose secret formula for flavored syrup has no real physicalvalue but maintains a priceless hold on consumers); a resistance
to substitution (most businesses have no alternative to electricity,
so utility companies are unlikely to be supplanted any time soon).
5304 Commentary on Chapter 11
company’s cash inflows and outflows into “operating activities, ” “invest-
ing activities, ” and “financing activities. ” If cash from operating activities isconsistently negative, while cash from financing activities is consistently
positive, the company has a habit of craving more cash than its own 
businesses can produce—and you should not join the “enablers” of thathabitual abuse. For more on Global Crossing, see the commentary on
Chapter 12. For more on WorldCom, see the sidebar in the commentary on
Chapter 6.
5For more insight into “moats, ” see the classic book Competitive Strategy
by Harvard Business School professor Michael E. Porter (Free Press, NewYork, 1998).• The company is a marathoner, not a sprinter. By looking back at
the income statements, you can see whether revenues and net
earnings have grown smoothly and steadily over the previous 10years. A recent article in the Financial Analysts Journal confirmed
what other studies (and the sad experience of many investors)
have shown: that the fastest-growing companies tend to overheatand flame out.
6If earnings are growing at a long-term rate of 10%
pretax (or 6% to 7% after-tax), that may be sustainable. But the15% growth hurdle that many companies set for themselves isdelusional. And an even higher rate—or a sudden burst of growth
in one or two years—is all but certain to fade, just like an inexperi-enced marathoner who tries to run the whole race as if it were a100-meter dash.
• The company sows andreaps. No matter how good its products
or how powerful its brands, a company must spend some money
to develop new business. While research and development
spending is not a source of growth today, it may well be tomor-
row—particularly if a firm has a proven record of rejuvenating itsbusinesses with new ideas and equipment. The average budget
for research and development varies across industries and com-
panies. In 2002, Procter & Gamble spent about 4% of its netsales on R & D, while 3M spent 6.5% and Johnson & Johnson
10.9%. In the long run, a company that spends nothing on R & D
is at least as vulnerable as one that spends too much.
The quality and conduct of management. A company’s execu-
tives should say what they will do, then do what they said. Read thepast annual reports to see what forecasts the managers made and 
if they fulfilled them or fell short. Managers should forthrightly admit
their failures and take responsibility for them, rather than blaming all-purpose scapegoats like “the economy, ” “uncertainty, ” or “weak
demand. ” Check whether the tone and substance of the chairman’s
letter stay constant, or fluctuate with the latest fads on Wall Street.(Pay special attention to boom years like 1999: Did the executives ofCommentary on Chapter 11 305
6See Cyrus A. Ramezani, Luc Soenen, and Alan Jung, “Growth, Corporate
Profitability, and Value Creation, ” Financial Analysts Journal, November/
December, 2002, pp. 56–67; also available at http://cyrus.cob.calpoly.edu/.a cement or underwear company suddenly declare that they were “on
the leading edge of the transformative software revolution”?)
These questions can also help you determine whether the people
who run the company will act in the interests of the people who own
the company:
• Are they looking out for No. 1?
A firm that pays its CEO $100 million in a year had better have a
very good reason. (Perhaps he discovered—and patented—the Foun-
tain of Youth? Or found El Dorado and bought it for $1 an acre? Or
contacted life on another planet and negotiated a contract obligat-
ing the aliens to buy all their supplies from only one company onEarth?) Otherwise, this kind of obscenely obese payday suggests
that the firm is run by the managers, forthe managers.
If a company reprices (or “reissues” or “exchanges”) its stock
options for insiders, stay away. In this switcheroo, a company can-
cels existing (and typically worthless) stock options for employeesand executives, then replaces them with new ones at advanta-geous prices. If their value is never allowed to go to zero, while
their potential profit is always infinite, how can options encourage
good stewardship of corporate assets? Any established companythat reprices options—as dozens of high-tech firms have—is a dis-
grace. And any investor who buys stock in such a company is a
sheep begging to be sheared.
By looking in the annual report for the mandatory footnote
about stock options, you can see how large the “option overhang”is. AOL Time Warner, for example, reported in the front of itsannual report that it had 4.5 billion shares of common stock out-
standing as of December 31, 2002—but a footnote in the bowels
of the report reveals that the company had issued options on 657million more shares. So AOL’s future earnings will have to be
divided among 15% more shares. You should factor in the poten-
tial flood of new shares from stock options whenever you estimatea company’s future value.
7
“Form 4, ” available through the EDGAR database at www.sec.306 Commentary on Chapter 11
7Jason Zweig is an employee of AOL Time Warner and holds options in the
company. For more about how stock options work, see the commentary on
Chapter 19, p. 507 .gov, shows whether a firm’s senior executives and directors have
been buying or selling shares. There can be legitimate reasons foran insider to sell—diversification, a bigger house, a divorce settle-ment—but repeated big sales are a bright red flag. A managercan’t legitimately be your partner if he keeps selling while you’re
buying.
• Are they managers or promoters?
Executives should spend most of their time managing their
company in private, not promoting it to the investing public. All toooften, CEOs complain that their stock is undervalued no matter
how high it goes—forgetting Graham’s insistence that managersshould try to keep the stock price from going either too low ortoo
high.
8Meanwhile, all too many chief financial officers give “earn-
ings guidance, ” or guesstimates of the company’s quarterly prof-
its. And some firms are hype-o-chondriacs, constantly spewingforth press releases boasting of temporary, trivial, or hypothetical“opportunities. ”
A handful of companies—including Coca-Cola, Gillette, and
USA Interactive—have begun to “just say no” to Wall Street’s
short-term thinking. These few brave outfits are providing more
detail about their current budgets and long-term plans, whilerefusing to speculate about what the next 90 days might hold.
(For a model of how a company can communicate candidly and
fairly with its shareholders, go to the EDGAR database atwww.sec.gov and view the 8-K filings made by Expeditors In-
ternational of Washington, which periodically posts its superb
question-and-answer dialogues with shareholders there.)
Finally, ask whether the company’s accounting practices are
designed to make its financial results transparent—or opaque. If“nonrecurring” charges keep recurring, “extraordinary” items cropup so often that they seem ordinary, acronyms like EBITDA take
priority over net income, or “pro forma” earnings are used to cloak
actual losses, you may be looking at a firm that has not yet learnedhow to put its shareholders’ long-term interests first.
9Commentary on Chapter 11 307
8See note 19 in the commentary on Chapter 19, p. 508.
9For more on these issues, see the commentary on Chapter 12 and the
superb essay by Joseph Fuller and Michael C. Jensen, “Just Say No to Wall
Street, ” at http://papers.ssrn.com.Financial strength and capital structure. The most basic possible
definition of a good business is this: It generates more cash than it
consumes. Good managers keep finding ways of putting that cash toproductive use. In the long run, companies that meet this definition arevirtually certain to grow in value, no matter what the stock market
does.
Start by reading the statement of cash flows in the company’s
annual report. See whether cash from operations has grown steadilythroughout the past 10 years. Then you can go further. Warren Buffetthas popularized the concept of owner earnings, or net income plus
amortization and depreciation, minus normal capital expenditures. As
portfolio manager Christopher Davis of Davis Selected Advisors putsit, “If you owned 100% of this business, how much cash would youhave in your pocket at the end of the year?” Because it adjusts foraccounting entries like amortization and depreciation that do not
affect the company’s cash balances, owner earnings can be a better
measure than reported net income. To fine-tune the definition of owner
earnings, you should also subtract from reported net income:
• any costs of granting stock options, which divert earnings away
from existing shareholders into the hands of new inside owners
• any “unusual, ” “nonrecurring, ” or “extraordinary” charges
• any “income” from the company’s pension fund.
If owner earnings per share have grown at a steady average of at
least 6% or 7% over the past 10 years, the company is a stable gen-
erator of cash, and its prospects for growth are good.
Next, look at the company’s capital structure. Turn to the balance
sheet to see how much debt (including preferred stock) the companyhas; in general, long-term debt should be under 50% of total capital.In the footnotes to the financial statements, determine whether the
long-term debt is fixed-rate (with constant interest payments) or vari-
able (with payments that fluctuate, which could become costly if inter-est rates rise).
Look in the annual report for the exhibit or statement showing the
“ratio of earnings to fixed charges. ” That exhibit to Amazon.com’s2002 annual report shows that Amazon’s earnings fell $145 millionshort of covering its interest costs. In the future, Amazon will eitherhave to earn much more from its operations or find a way to borrowmoney at lower rates. Otherwise, the company could end up being308 Commentary on Chapter 11owned not by its shareholders but by its bondholders, who can lay
claim to Amazon’s assets if they have no other way of securing theinterest payments they are owed. (To be fair, Amazon’s ratio of earn-ings to fixed charges was far healthier in 2002 than two years earlier,when earnings fell $1.1 billion short of covering debt payments.)
A few words on dividends and stock policy (for more, please see
Chapter 19):
• The burden of proof is on the company to show that you are better
off if it does not pay a dividend. If the firm has consistently outper-
formed the competition in good markets and bad, the managers are
clearly putting the cash to optimal use. If, however, business is fal-tering or the stock is underperforming its rivals, then the managers
and directors are misusing the cash by refusing to pay a dividend.
• Companies that repeatedly split their shares—and hype those
splits in breathless press releases—treat their investors like dolts.
Like Yogi Berra, who wanted his pizza cut into four slices because“I don’t think I can eat eight, ” the shareholders who love stocksplits miss the point. Two shares of a stock at $50 are not worth
more than one share at $100. Managers who use splits to pro-
mote their stock are aiding and abetting the worst instincts of theinvesting public, and the intelligent investor will think twice before
turning any money over to such condescending manipulators.
10
• Companies should buy back their shares when they are cheap—
not when they are at or near record highs. Unfortunately, it
recently has become all too common for companies to repur-chase their stock when it is overpriced. There is no more cynical
waste of a company’s cash—since the real purpose of that maneu-ver is to enable top executives to reap multimillion-dollar paydaysby selling their own stock options in the name of “enhancingshareholder value. ”
A substantial amount of anecdotal evidence, in fact, suggests that
managers who talk about “enhancing shareholder value” seldom do.In investing, as with life in general, ultimate victory usually goes to thedoers, not to the talkers.Commentary on Chapter 11 309
10Stock splits are discussed further in the commentary on Chapter 13.CHAPTER 12
Things to Consider About 
Per-Share Earnings
This chapter will begin with two pieces of advice to the investor
that cannot avoid being contradictory in their implications. The
first is: Don’t take a single year’s earnings seriously. The second is:If you do pay attention to short-term earnings, look out for boobytraps in the per-share figures. If our first warning were followed
strictly the second would be unnecessary. But it is too much to
expect that most shareholders can relate all their common-stockdecisions to the long-term record and the long-term prospects. The
quarterly figures, and especially the annual figures, receive major
attention in financial circles, and this emphasis can hardly fail tohave its impact on the investor’s thinking. He may well need some
education in this area, for it abounds in misleading possibilities.
As this chapter is being written the earnings report of Alu-
minum Company of America (ALCOA) for 1970 appears in theWall Street Journal. The first figures shown are
1970 1969
Share earnings
a$5.20 $5.58
The little aat the outset is explained in a footnote to refer to “pri-
mary earnings,” before special charges. There is much more foot-note material; in fact it occupies twice as much space as do the
basic figures themselves.
For the December quarter alone, the “earnings per share” are
given as $1.58 in 1970 against $1.56 in 1969.
The investor or speculator interested in ALCOA shares, reading
310those figures, might say to himself: “Not so bad. I knew that 1970
was a recession year in aluminum. But the fourth quarter shows a
gain over 1969, with earnings at the rate of $6.32 per year. Let me
see. The stock is selling at 62. Why, that’s less than ten times earn-ings. That makes it look pretty cheap, compared with 16 times forInternational Nickel, etc., etc.”
But if our investor-speculator friend had bothered to read all the
material in the footnote, he would have found that instead of one
figure of earnings per share for the year 1970 there were actually
four, viz.:
1970 1969
Primary earnings $5.20 $5.58
Net income (after special charges) 4.32 5.58Fully diluted, before special charges 5.01 5.35
Fully diluted, after special charges 4.19 5.35
For the fourth quarter alone only two figures are given:
Primary earnings $1.58 $1.56
Net income (after special charges) .70 1.56
What do all these additional earnings mean? Which earnings are
true earnings for the year and the December quarter? If the latter
should be taken at 70 cents—the net income after special charges—the annual rate would be $2.80 instead of $6.32, and the price 62would be “22 times earnings,” instead of the 10 times we started
with.
Part of the question as to the “true earnings” of ALCOA can be
answered quite easily. The reduction from $5.20 to $5.01, to allowfor the effects of “dilution,” is clearly called for. ALCOA has a large
bond issue convertible into common stock; to calculate the “earn-ing power” of the common, based on the 1970 results, it must be
assumed that the conversion privilege will be exercised if it should
prove profitable to the bondholders to do so. The amount involvedin the ALCOA picture is relatively small, and hardly deservesdetailed comment. But in other cases, making allowance for con-version rights—and the existence of stock-purchase warrants—canThings to Consider About Per-Share Earnings 311reduce the apparent earnings by half, or more. We shall present
examples of a really significant dilution factor below (page 411).
(The financial services are not always consistent in their allowance
for the dilution factor in their reporting and analyses.)*
Let us turn now to the matter of “special charges.” This figure of
$18,800,000, or 88 cents per share, deducted in the fourth quarter, isnot unimportant. Is it to be ignored entirely, or fully recognized asan earnings reduction, or partly recognized and partly ignored?
The alert investor might ask himself also how does it happen that
there was a virtual epidemic of such special charge-offs appearingafter the close of 1970, but not in previous years? Could there pos-
sibly have been some fine Italian hands† at work with the account-
ing—but always, of course, within the limits of the permissible?When we look closely we may find that such losses, charged offbefore they actually occur, can be charmed away, as it were, withno unhappy effect on either past or future “primary earnings.” Insome extreme cases they might be availed of to make subsequent
earnings appear nearly twice as large as in reality—by a more or
less prestidigitous treatment of the tax credit involved.312 The Intelligent Investor
* “Dilution” is one of many words that describe stocks in the language of
fluid dynamics. A stock with high trading volume is said to be “liquid. ” When
a company goes public in an IPO, it “floats” its shares. And, in earlier days, a
company that drastically diluted its shares (with large amounts of convert-ible debt or multiple offerings of common stock) was said to have “watered”
its stock. This term is believed to have originated with the legendary market
manipulator Daniel Drew (1797–1879), who began as a livestock trader. Hewould drive his cattle south toward Manhattan, force-feeding them salt
along the way. When they got to the Harlem River, they would guzzle huge
volumes of water to slake their thirst. Drew would then bring them to market,where the water they had just drunk would increase their weight. That
enabled him to get a much higher price, since cattle on the hoof is sold by
the pound. Drew later watered the stock of the Erie Railroad by massivelyissuing new shares without warning.† Graham is referring to the precise craftsmanship of the immigrant Italianstone carvers who ornamented the otherwise plain facades of buildingsthroughout New York in the early 1900s. Accountants, likewise, can trans-form simple financial facts into intricate and even incomprehensible patterns.In dealing with ALCOA’s special charges, the first thing to
establish is how they arose. The footnotes are specific enough. The
deductions came from four sources, viz.:
1. Management’s estimate of the anticipated costs of closing
down the manufactured products division.
2. Ditto for closing down ALCOA Castings Co.’s plants.
3. Ditto for losses in phasing out ALCOA Credit Co.4. Also, estimated costs of $5.3 million associated with comple-
tion of the contract for a “curtain wall.”
All of these items are related to future costs and losses. It is easy
to say that they are not part of the “regular operating results” of1970—but if so, where do they belong? Are they so “extraordinaryand nonrecurring” as to belong nowhere? A widespread enterprisesuch as ALCOA, doing a $1.5 billion business annually, must havea lot of divisions, departments, affiliates, and the like. Would it not
be normal rather than extraordinary for one or more to prove
unprofitable, and to require closing down? Similarly for suchthings as a contract to build a wall. Suppose that any time a com-
pany had a loss on any part of its business it had the bright idea of
charging it off as a “special item,” and thus reporting its “primaryearnings” per share so as to include only its profitable contracts
and operations? Like King Edward VII’s sundial, that marked only
the “sunny hours.”*Things to Consider About Per-Share Earnings 313
* The king probably took his inspiration from a once-famous essay by the
English writer William Hazlitt, who mused about a sundial near Venice that
bore the words Horas non numero nisi serenas, or “I count only the hours
that are serene. ” Companies that chronically exclude bad news from their
financial results on the pretext that negative events are “extraordinary” or
“nonrecurring” are taking a page from Hazlitt, who urged his readers “to
take no note of time but by its benefits, to watch only for the smiles and ne-glect the frowns of fate, to compose our lives of bright and gentle moments,turning away to the sunny side of things, and letting the rest slip from ourimaginations, unheeded or forgotten!” (William Hazlitt, “On a Sun-Dial, ” ca.1827 .) Unfortunately, investors must always count the sunny and dark hoursalike.The reader should note two ingenious aspects of the ALCOA
procedure we have been discussing. The first is that by anticipating
future losses the company escapes the necessity of allocating the
losses themselves to an identifiable year. They don’t belong in
1970, because they were not actually taken in that year. And theywon’t be shown in the year when they are actually taken, because
they have already been provided for. Neat work, but might it notbe just a little misleading?
The ALCOA footnote says nothing about the future tax saving
from these losses. (Most other statements of this sort state specifi-cally that only the “after-tax effect” has been charged off.) If the
ALCOA figure represents future losses before the related tax credit,
then not only will future earnings be freed from the weight of thesecharges (as they are actually incurred), but they will be increased by
a tax credit of some 50% thereof. It is difficult to believe that the
accounts will be handled that way. But it is a fact that certain com-
panies which have had large losses in the past have been able to
report future earnings without charging the normal taxes against
them, in that way making a very fine profits appearance indeed—based paradoxically enough on their past disgraces. (Tax credits
resulting from past years’ losses are now being shown separately as
“special items,” but they will enter into future statistics as part of
the final “net-income” figure. However, a reserve now set up for
future losses, if netof expected tax credit, should not create an addi-
tion of this sort to the net income of later years.)
The other ingenious feature is the use by ALCOA and many
other companies of the 1970 year-end for making these specialcharge-offs. The stock market took what appeared to be a blood
bath in the first half of 1970. Everyone expected relatively poor
results for the year for most companies. Wall Street was now antic-
ipating better results in 1971, 1972, etc. What a nice arrangement,then, to charge as much as possible to the bad year, which had
already been written off mentally and had virtually receded into
the past, leaving the way clear for nicely fattened figures in thenext few years! Perhaps this is good accounting, good business pol-icy, and good for management-shareholder relationships. But wehave lingering doubts.
The combination of widely (or should it be wildly?) diversified
operations with the impulse to clean house at the end of 1970 has314 The Intelligent Investorproduced some strange-looking footnotes to the annual reports.
The reader may be amused by the following explanation given by 
a New York Stock Exchange company (which shall remain
unnamed) of its “special items” aggregating $2,357,000, or about athird of the income before charge-offs: “Consists of provision forclosing Spalding United Kingdom operations; provision for reorga-nizational expenses of a division; costs of selling a small baby-pants and bib manufacturing company, disposing of part interest
in a Spanish car-leasing facility, and liquidation of a ski-boot opera-
tion.”*
Years ago the strong companies used to set up “contingency
reserves” out of the profits of good years to absorb some of the bad
effects of depression years to come. The underlying idea was toequalize the reported earnings, more or less, and to improve thestability factor in the company’s record. A worthy motive, it wouldseem; but the accountants quite rightly objected to the practice asmisstating the true earnings. They insisted that each year’s results
be presented as they were, good or bad, and the shareholders and
analysts be allowed to do the averaging or equalizing for them-selves. We seem now to be witnessing the opposite phenomenon,
with everyone charging off as much as possible against forgotten
1970, so as to start 1971 with a slate not only clean but speciallyprepared to show pleasing per-share figures in the coming years.
It is time to return to our first question. What then were the true
earnings of ALCOA in 1970? The accurate answer would be: The$5.01 per share, after “dilution,” lessthat part of the 82 cents of
“special charges” that may properly be attributed to occurrences in
1970. But we do not know what that portion is, and hence we cannot
properly state the true earnings for the year. The management and the
auditors should have given us their best judgment on this point,
but they did not do so. And furthermore, the management and theauditors should have provided for deduction of the balance of
these charges from the ordinary earnings of a suitable number ofThings to Consider About Per-Share Earnings 315
* The company to which Graham refers so coyly appears to be American
Machine & Foundry (or AMF Corp.), one of the most jumbled conglomeratesof the late 1960s. It was a predecessor of today’s AMF Bowling Worldwide,which operates bowling alleys and manufactures bowling equipment.future years—say, not more than five. This evidently they will not
do either, since they have already conveniently disposed of the
entire sum as a 1970 special charge.
The more seriously investors take the per-share earnings figures
as published, the more necessary it is for them to be on their guard
against accounting factors of one kind and another that may impairthe true comparability of the numbers. We have mentioned threesorts of these factors: the use of special charges, which may never be
reflected in the per-share earnings, the reduction in the normalincome-tax deduction by reason of past losses, and the dilution fac-
tor implicit in the existence of substantial amounts of convertible
securities or warrants.
1A fourth item that has had a significant
effect on reported earnings in the past is the method of treatingdepreciation—chiefly as between the “straight-line” and the
“accelerated” schedules. We refrain from details here. But as anexample current as we write, let us mention the 1970 report ofTrane Co. This firm showed an increase of nearly 20% in per-shareearnings over 1969—$3.29 versus $2.76—but half of this came fromreturning to the older straight-line depreciation rates, less burden-some on earnings than the accelerated method used the yearbefore. (The company will continue to use the accelerated rate onits income-tax return, thus deferring income-tax payments on the
difference.) Still another factor, important at times, is the choice
between charging off research and development costs in the yearthey are incurred or amortizing them over a period of years.
Finally, let us mention the choice between the FIFO (first-in-first-
out) and LIFO (last-in-first-out) methods of valuing inventories.*316 The Intelligent Investor
* Nowadays, investors need to be aware of several other “accounting fac-
tors” that can distort reported earnings. One is “pro forma” or “as if” finan-
cial statements, which report a company’s earnings as if Generally
Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) did not apply. Another is the dilu-tive effect of issuing millions of stock options for executive compensation,
then buying back millions of shares to keep those options from reducing the
value of the common stock. A third is unrealistic assumptions of return onthe company’s pension funds, which can artificially inflate earnings in goodyears and depress them in bad. Another is “Special Purpose Entities, ” oraffiliated firms or partnerships that buy risky assets or liabilities of the com-An obvious remark here would be that investors should not pay
any attention to these accounting variables if the amounts involved
are relatively small. But Wall Street being as it is, even items quite
minor in themselves can be taken seriously. Two days before theALCOA report appeared in the Wall Street Journal, the paper had
quite a discussion of the corresponding statement of Dow Chemi-cal. It closed with the observation that “many analysts” had beentroubled by the fact that Dow had included a 21-cent item in regu-
lar profits for 1969, instead of treating it as an item of “extraordi-
nary income.” Why the fuss? Because, evidently, evaluations ofDow Chemical involving many millions of dollars in the aggregate
seemed to depend on exactly what was the percentage gain for
1969 over 1968—in this case either 9% or 4
1⁄2%. This strikes us 
as rather absurd; it is very unlikely that small differences involved
in one year’s results could have any bearing on future average
profits or growth, and on a conservative, realistic valuation of theenterprise.
By contrast, consider another statement also appearing in Janu-
ary 1971. This concerned Northwest Industries Inc.’s report for1970.* The company was planning to write off, as a special charge,not less than $264 million in one fell swoop. Of this, $200 millionrepresents the loss to be taken on the proposed sale of the railroadsubsidiary to its employees and the balance a write-down of a
recent stock purchase. These sums would work out to a loss of
about $35 per share of common before dilution offsets, or twice itsthen current market price. Here we have something really signifi-Things to Consider About Per-Share Earnings 317
pany and thus “remove” those financial risks from the company’s balance
sheet. Another element of distortion is the treatment of marketing or other“soft” costs as assets of the company, rather than as normal expenses of
doing business. We will briefly examine such practices in the commentary
that accompanies this chapter.* Northwest Industries was the holding company for, among other busi-
nesses, the Chicago and Northwestern Railway Co. and Union Underwear
(the maker of both BVD and Fruit of the Loom briefs). It was taken over in1985 by overindebted financier William Farley, who ran the company intothe ground. Fruit of the Loom was bought in a bankruptcy proceeding byWarren Buffett’s Berkshire Hathaway Inc. in early 2002.cant. If the transaction goes through, and if the tax laws are not
changed, this loss provided for in 1970 will permit Northwest
Industries to realize about $400 million of future profits (within
five years) from its other diversified interests without payingincome tax thereon.* What will then be the real earnings of thatenterprise; should they be calculated with or without provision forthe nearly 50% in income taxes which it will not actually have topay? In our opinion, the proper mode of calculation would be first
to consider the indicated earning power on the basis of full income-
tax liability, and to derive some broad idea of the stock’s valuebased on that estimate. To this should be added some bonus figure,
representing the value per share of the important but temporary
tax exemption the company will enjoy. (Allowance must be made,also, for a possible large-scale dilution in this case. Actually, theconvertible preferred issues and warrants would more than doublethe outstanding common shares if the privileges are exercised.)
All this may be confusing and wearisome to our readers, but it
belongs in our story. Corporate accounting is often tricky; securityanalysis can be complicated; stock valuations are really depend-able only in exceptional cases.† For most investors it would be
probably best to assure themselves that they are getting good value
for the prices they pay, and let it go at that.318 The Intelligent Investor
* Graham is referring to the provision of Federal tax law that allows corpora-
tions to “carry forward” their net operating losses. As the tax code now
stands, these losses can be carried forward for up to 20 years, reducing the
company’s tax liability for the entire period (and thus raising its earningsafter tax). Therefore, investors should consider whether recent severe
losses could actually improve the company’s net earnings in the future.
† Investors should keep these words at hand and remind themselves of
them frequently: “Stock valuations are really dependable only in exceptional
cases. ” While the prices of most stocks are approximately right most of the
time, the price of a stock and the value of its business are almost never iden-tical. The market’s judgment on price is often unreliable. Unfortunately, themargin of the market’s pricing errors is often not wide enough to justify theexpense of trading on them. The intelligent investor must carefully evaluatethe costs of trading and taxes before attempting to take advantage of anyprice discrepancy—and should never count on being able to sell for theexact price currently quoted in the market.Use of Average Earnings
In former times analysts and investors paid considerable atten-
tion to the average earnings over a fairly long period in the past—
usually from seven to ten years. This “mean figure”* was useful forironing out the frequent ups and downs of the business cycle, andit was thought to give a better idea of the company’s earning
power than the results of the latest year alone. One importantadvantage of such an averaging process is that it will solve the
problem of what to do about nearly all the special charges and
credits. They should be included in the average earnings. For cer-
tainly most of these losses and gains represent a part of thecompany’s operating history. If we do this for ALCOA, the averageearnings for 1961–1970 (ten years) would appear as $3.62 and forthe seven years 1964–1970 as $4.62 per share. If such figures are
used in conjunction with ratings for growth and stability of earn-
ings during the same period, they could give a really informingpicture of the company’s past performance.
Calculation of the Past Growth Rate
It is of prime importance that the growth factor in a company’s
record be taken adequately into account. Where the growth hasbeen large the recent earnings will be well above the seven- or ten-year average, and analysts may deem these long-term figures irrel-
evant. This need not be the case. The earnings can be given in
terms both of the average and the latest figure. We suggest that the
growth rate itself be calculated by comparing the average of the last
three years with corresponding figures ten years earlier. (Wherethere is a problem of “special charges or credits” it may be dealtwith on some compromise basis.) Note the following calculation
for the growth of ALCOA as against that of Sears Roebuck and the
DJIA group as a whole.
Comment: These few figures could be made the subject of a long
discussion. They probably show as well as any others, derived byelaborate mathematical treatment, the actual growth of earningsThings to Consider About Per-Share Earnings 319
* “Mean figure” refers to the simple, or arithmetic, average that Graham
describes in the preceding sentence.for the long period 1958–1970. But how relevant is this figure, gen-
erally considered central in common-stock valuations, to the case
of ALCOA? Its past growth rate was excellent, actually a bit better
than that of acclaimed Sears Roebuck and much higher than that ofthe DJIA composite. But the market price at the beginning of 1971seemed to pay no attention to this fine performance. ALCOA soldat only 11
1⁄2times the recent three-year average, while Sears sold at
27 times and the DJIA itself at 15+ times. How did this come about?
Evidently Wall Street has fairly pessimistic views about the future
course of ALCOA’s earnings, in contrast with its past record. Sur-prisingly enough, the high price for ALCOA was made as far back
as 1959. In that year it sold at 116, or 45 times its earnings. (This
compares with a 1959 adjusted high price of 25
1⁄2for Sears Roebuck,
or 20 times its then earnings.) Even though ALCOA’s profits didshow excellent growth thereafter, it is evident that in this case thefuture possibilities were greatly overestimated in the market price.It closed 1970 at exactly half of the 1959 high, while Sears tripled inprice and the DJIA moved up nearly 30%.
It should be pointed out that ALCOA’s earnings on capital
funds* had been only average or less, and this may be the decisive
factor here. High multipliers have been maintained in the stock mar-
ket only if the company has maintained better than average prof-
itability.320 The Intelligent Investor
TABLE 12-1
ALCOA Sears Roebuck DJIA
Average earnings 1968–1970 $4.95a$2.87 $55.40
Average earnings 1958–1960 2.08 1.23 31.49
Growth 141.0% 134.0% 75.0%
Annual rate (compounded) 9.0% 8.7% 5.7%
aThree-fifths of special charges of 82 cents in 1970 deducted here.
* Graham appears to be using “earnings on capital funds” in the traditional
sense of return on book value—essentially, net income divided by thecompany’s tangible net assets.Let us apply at this point to ALCOA the suggestion we made in
the previous chapter for a “two-part appraisal process.”* Such an
approach might have produced a “past-performance value” for
ALCOA of 10% of the DJIA, or $84 per share relative to the closingprice of 840 for the DJIA in 1970. On this basis the shares wouldhave appeared quite attractive at their price of 57
1⁄4.
To what extent should the senior analyst have marked down the
“past-performance value” to allow for adverse developments thathe saw in the future? Frankly, we have no idea. Assume he had rea-son to believe that the 1971 earnings would be as low as $2.50 pershare—a large drop from the 1970 figure, as against an advanceexpected for the DJIA. Very likely the stock market would take thispoor performance quite seriously, but would it really establish the
once mighty Aluminum Company of America as a relatively
unprofitable enterprise, to be valued at less than its tangible assets
behind the shares?† (In 1971 the price declined from a high of 70 in
May to a low of 36 in December, against a book value of 55.)
ALCOA is surely a representative industrial company of huge
size, but we think that its price-and-earnings history is moreunusual, even contradictory, than that of most other large enter-prises. Yet this instance supports to some degree, the doubts we
expressed in the last chapter as to the dependability of the appraisal
procedure when applied to the typical industrial company.Things to Consider About Per-Share Earnings 321
*See pp. 299–301.
† Recent history—and a mountain of financial research—have shown that the
market is unkindest to rapidly growing companies that suddenly report a fall
in earnings. More moderate and stable growers, as ALCOA was inGraham’s day or Anheuser-Busch and Colgate-Palmolive are in our time,
tend to suffer somewhat milder stock declines if they report disappointing
earnings. Great expectations lead to great disappointment if they are notmet; a failure to meet moderate expectations leads to a much milder reac-tion. Thus, one of the biggest risks in owning growth stocks is not that theirgrowth will stop, but merely that it will slow down. And in the long run, that isnot merely a risk, but a virtual certainty.COMMENTARY ON C HAPTER 12
You can get ripped off easier by a dude with a pen than you can
by a dude with a gun.
—Bo Diddley
THE NUMBERS GAME
Even Graham would have been startled by the extent to which compa-
nies and their accountants pushed the limits of propriety in the pastfew years. Compensated heavily through stock options, top execu-tives realized that they could become fabulously rich merely byincreasing their company’s earnings for just a few years running.
1Hun-
dreds of companies violated the spirit, if not the letter, of accounting
principles—turning their financial reports into gibberish, tarting up uglyresults with cosmetic fixes, cloaking expenses, or manufacturing earn-
ings out of thin air. Let’s look at some of these unsavory practices.
AS IF!
Perhaps the most widespread bit of accounting hocus-pocus was the
“pro forma” earnings fad. There’s an old saying on Wall Street that
every bad idea starts out as a good idea, and pro forma earnings pre-
sentation is no different. The original point was to provide a truer pic-ture of the long-term growth of earnings by adjusting for short-term
deviations from the trend or for supposedly “nonrecurring” events. A
pro forma press release might, for instance, show what a companywould have earned over the past year if another firm it just acquiredhad been part of the family for the entire 12 months.
3221For more on how stock options can enrich corporate managers—but not
necessarily outside shareholders—see the commentary on Chapter 19.But, as the Naughty 1990s advanced, companies just couldn’t
leave well enough alone. Just look at these examples of pro forma flim-
flam:
• For the quarter ended September 30, 1999, InfoSpace, Inc. pre-
sented its pro forma earnings as if it had not paid $159.9 million
in preferred-stock dividends.
• For the quarter ended October 31, 2001, BEA Systems, Inc. pre-
sented its pro forma earnings as if it had not paid $193 million inpayroll taxes on stock options exercised by its employees.
• For the quarter ended March 31, 2001, JDS Uniphase Corp. pre-
sented its pro forma earnings as if it had not paid $4 million inpayroll taxes, had not lost $7 million investing in lousy stocks, and
had not incurred $2.5 billion in charges related to mergers and
goodwill.
In short, pro forma earnings enable companies to show how well
they might have done if they hadn’t done as badly as they did.
2As an
intelligent investor, the only thing you should do with pro forma earn-
ings is ignore them.
HUNGRY FOR RECOGNITION
In 2000, Qwest Communications International Inc., the telecommuni-
cations giant, looked strong. Its shares dropped less than 5% even as
the stock market lost more than 9% that year.
But Qwest’s financial reports held an odd little revelation. In late
1999, Qwest decided to recognize the revenues from its telephonedirectories as soon as the phone books were published—even though,as anyone who has ever taken out a Yellow Pages advertisement
knows, many businesses pay for those ads in monthly installments.Commentary on Chapter 12 323
2All the above examples are taken directly from press releases issued by
the companies themselves. For a brilliant satire on what daily life would be
like if we all got to justify our behavior the same way companies adjust theirreported earnings, see “My Pro Forma Life, ” by Rob Walker, at http://slate.msn.com/?id=2063953. (“. . . a recent post-workout lunch of a 22-ounce,bone-in rib steak at Smith & Wollensky and three shots of bourbon is treatedhere as a nonrecurring expense. I’ll never do that again!”)Abracadabra! That piddly-sounding “change in accounting principle”
pumped up 1999 net income by $240 million after taxes—a fifth of allthe money Qwest earned that year.
Like a little chunk of ice crowning a submerged iceberg, aggressive
revenue recognition is often a sign of dangers that run deep and loom
large—and so it was at Qwest. By early 2003, after reviewing its previ-ous financial statements, the company announced that it had prema-
turely recognized profits on equipment sales, improperly recorded the
costs of services provided by outsiders, inappropriately booked costsas if they were capital assets rather than expenses, and unjustifiably
treated the exchange of assets as if they were outright sales. All told,Qwest’s revenues for 2000 and 2001 had been overstated by $2.2billion—including $80 million from the earlier “change in accountingprinciple, ” which was now reversed.
3
CAPITAL OFFENSES
In the late 1990s, Global Crossing Ltd. had unlimited ambitions. The
Bermuda-based company was building what it called the “first inte-grated global fiber optic network” over more than 100,000 miles of324 Commentary on Chapter 12
3In 2002, Qwest was one of 330 publicly-traded companies to restate past
financial statements, an all-time record, according to Huron Consulting
Group. All information on Qwest is taken from its financial filings with the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (annual report, Form 8K, andForm 10-K) found in the EDGAR database at www.sec.gov. No hindsight
was required to detect the “change in accounting principle, ” which Qwest
fully disclosed at the time. How did Qwest’s shares do over this period? Atyear-end 2000, the stock had been at $41 per share, a total market value of
$67 .9 billion. By early 2003, Qwest was around $4, valuing the entire com-
pany at less than $7 billion—a 90% loss. The drop in share price is not theonly cost associated with bogus earnings; a recent study found that a sam-
ple of 27 firms accused of accounting fraud by the SEC had overpaid $320
million in Federal income tax. Although much of that money will eventually berefunded by the IRS, most shareholders are unlikely to stick around to bene-fit from the refunds. (See Merle Erickson, Michelle Hanlon, and Edward May-dew, “How Much Will Firms Pay for Earnings that Do Not Exist?” at http://papers.ssrn.com.)cables, largely laid across the floor of the world’s oceans. After wiring
the world, Global Crossing would sell other communications compa-nies the right to carry their traffic over its network of cables. In 1998alone, Global Crossing spent more than $600 million to construct itsoptical web. That year, nearly a third of the construction budget was
charged against revenues as an expense called “cost of capacitysold. ” If not for that $178 million expense, Global Crossing—which
reported a net loss of $96 million—could have reported a net profit of
roughly $82 million.
The next year, says a bland footnote in the 1999 annual report,
Global Crossing “initiated service contract accounting. ” The company
would no longer charge most construction costs as expenses againstthe immediate revenues it received from selling capacity on its net-work. Instead, a major chunk of those construction costs would nowbe treated not as an operating expense but as a capital expenditure—
thereby increasing the company’s total assets, instead of decreasing
its net income.
4
Poof! In one wave of the wand, Global Crossing’s “property and
equipment” assets rose by $575 million, while its cost of sales
increased by a mere $350 million—even though the company wasspending money like a drunken sailor.
Capital expenditures are an essential tool for managers to make a
good business grow bigger and better. But malleable accountingrules permit managers to inflate reported profits by transforming nor-Commentary on Chapter 12 325
4Global Crossing formerly treated much of its construction costs as an
expense to be charged against the revenue generated from the sale or lease
of usage rights on its network. Customers generally paid for their rights up
front, although some could pay in installments over periods of up to fouryears. But Global Crossing did not book most of the revenues up front,
instead deferring them over the lifetime of the lease. Now, however, because
the networks had an estimated usable life of up to 25 years, Global Cross-ing began treating them as depreciable, long-lived capital assets. While this
treatment conforms with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles, it is
unclear why Global Crossing did not use it before October 1, 1999, or whatexactly prompted the change. As of March 2001, Global Crossing had atotal stock valuation of $12.6 billion; the company filed for bankruptcy onJanuary 28, 2002, rendering its common stock essentially worthless.mal operating expenses into capital assets. As the Global Crossing
case shows, the intelligent investor should be sure to understandwhat, and why, a company capitalizes.
AN INVENTORY STORY
Like many makers of semiconductor chips, Micron Technology, Inc.
suffered a drop in sales after 2000. In fact, Micron was hit so hard bythe plunge in demand that it had to start writing down the value of itsinventories—since customers clearly did not want them at the pricesMicron had been asking. In the quarter ended May 2001, Micron
slashed the recorded value of its inventories by $261 million. Mostinvestors interpreted the write-down not as a normal or recurring cost
of operations, but as an unusual event.
But look what happened after that:326 Commentary on Chapter 12
A Block of the Old Chips
261.1465.8
172.8
3.825.9173.6
90.8
050100150200250300350400450500
May 2001 August 2001 November 2001 February 2002 May 2002 August 2002 November 2002
Micron Technology fiscal quartersInventory write-downs ($ millions)
Source: Micron Technology’s financial reports.FIGURE 12-1Micron booked further inventory write-downs in every one of the
next six fiscal quarters. Was the devaluation of Micron’s inventory a
nonrecurring event, or had it become a chronic condition? Reason-able minds can differ on this particular case, but one thing is clear:The intelligent investor must always be on guard for “nonrecurring”
costs that, like the Energizer bunny, just keep on going.
5
THE PENSION DIMENSION
In 2001, SBC Communications, Inc., which owns interests in Cingular
Wireless, PacTel, and Southern New England Telephone, earned $7 .2billion in net income—a stellar performance in a bad year for theoverextended telecom industry. But that gain didn’t come only fromSBC’s business. Fully $1.4 billion of it—13% of the company’s netincome—came from SBC’s pension plan.
Because SBC had more money in the pension plan than it esti-
mated was necessary to pay its employees’ future benefits, the com-pany got to treat the difference as current income. One simple reason
for that surplus: In 2001, SBC raised the rate of return it expected to
earn on the pension plan’s investments from 8.5% to 9.5%—loweringthe amount of money it needed to set aside today.
SBC explained its rosy new expectations by noting that “for each
of the three years ended 2001, our actual 10-year return on invest-ments exceeded 10%. ” In other words, our past returns have been
high, so let’s assume that our future returns will be too. But that not
only flunked the most rudimentary tests of logic, it flew in the face ofthe fact that interest rates were falling to near-record lows, depressingthe future returns on the bond portion of a pension portfolio.
The same year, in fact, Warren Buffett’s Berkshire Hathaway low-
ered the expected rate of return on its pension assets from 8.3% to
6.5%. Was SBC being realistic in assuming that its pension-fund man-agers could significantly outperform the world’s greatest investor?Probably not: In 2001, Berkshire Hathaway’s pension fund gained
9.8%, but SBC’s pension fund lost 6.9%.
6Commentary on Chapter 12 327
5I am grateful to Howard Schilit and Mark Hamel of the Center for Financial
Research and Analysis for providing this example.
6Returns are approximated by dividing the total net value of plan assets at
the beginning of the year by “actual return on plan assets. ”Here are some quick considerations for the intelligent investor: Is
the “net pension benefit” more than 5% of the company’s net income?
(If so, would you still be comfortable with the company’s other earn-ings if those pension gains went away in future years?) Is the
assumed “long-term rate of return on plan assets” reasonable? (As of
2003, anything above 6.5% is implausible, while a rising rate is
downright delusional.)
CAVEAT INVESTOR
A few pointers will help you avoid buying a stock that turns out to be
an accounting time bomb:
Read backwards. When you research a company’s financial
reports, start reading on the last page and slowly work your waytoward the front. Anything that the company doesn’t want you to findis buried in the back—which is precisely why you should look there
first.
Read the notes. Never buy a stock without reading the footnotes
to the financial statements in the annual report. Usually labeled “sum-mary of significant accounting policies, ” one key note describes how
the company recognizes revenue, records inventories, treats install-ment or contract sales, expenses its marketing costs, and accounts
for the other major aspects of its business.
7In the other footnotes,328 Commentary on Chapter 12
7Do not be put off by the stupefyingly boring verbiage of accounting foot-
notes. They are designed expressly to deter normal people from actually
reading them—which is why you must persevere. A footnote to the 1996
annual report of Informix Corp., for instance, disclosed that “The Companygenerally recognizes license revenue from sales of software licenses upon
delivery of the software product to a customer. However, for certain com-
puter hardware manufacturers and end-user licensees with amountspayable within twelve months, the Company will recognize revenue at the
time the customer makes a contractual commitment for a minimum non-
refundable license fee, if such computer hardware manufacturers and end-user licensees meet certain criteria established by the Company. ” In plainEnglish, Informix was saying that it would credit itself for revenues on prod-ucts even if they had not yet been resold to “end-users” (the actual cus-tomers for Informix’s software). Amid allegations by the U.S. Securities andwatch for disclosures about debt, stock options, loans to customers,
reserves against losses, and other “risk factors” that can take a bigchomp out of earnings. Among the things that should make yourantennae twitch are technical terms like “capitalized, ” “deferred, ” and“restructuring”—and plain-English words signaling that the company
has altered its accounting practices, like “began, ” “change, ” and “how-ever. ” None of those words mean you should not buy the stock, but all
mean that you need to investigate further. Be sure to compare the
footnotes with those in the financial statements of at least one firmthat’s a close competitor, to see how aggressive your company’s
accountants are.
Read more. If you are an enterprising investor willing to put plenty
of time and energy into your portfolio, then you owe it to yourself to
learn more about financial reporting. That’s the only way to minimizeyour odds of being misled by a shifty earnings statement. Three solidbooks full of timely and specific examples are Martin Fridson and Fer-
nando Alvarez’s Financial Statement Analysis, Charles Mulford and
Eugene Comiskey’s The Financial Numbers Game, and Howard
Schilit’s Financial Shenanigans.
8Commentary on Chapter 12 329
Exchange Commission that Informix had committed accounting fraud, the
company later restated its revenues, wiping away $244 million in such“sales. ” This case is a keen reminder of the importance of reading the fine
print with a skeptical eye. I am indebted to Martin Fridson for suggesting this
example.
8Martin Fridson and Fernando Alvarez, Financial Statement Analysis: A
Practitioner’s Guide (John Wiley & Sons, New York, 2002); Charles W. Mul-
ford and Eugene E. Comiskey, The Financial Numbers Game: Detecting
Creative Accounting Practices (John Wiley & Sons, New York, 2002);
Howard Schilit, Financial Shenanigans (McGraw-Hill, New York, 2002).
Benjamin Graham’s own book, The Interpretation of Financial Statements
(HarperBusiness, New York, 1998 reprint of 1937 edition), remains anexcellent brief introduction to the basic principles of earnings and expenses,assets and liabilities.CHAPTER 13
A Comparison of Four Listed Companies
In this chapter we should like to present a sample of security
analysis in operation. We have selected, more or less at random,
four companies which are found successively on the New YorkStock Exchange list. These are eltra Corp. (a merger of Electric
Autolite and Mergenthaler Linotype enterprises), Emerson Electric
Co. (a manufacturer of electric and electronic products), Emery Air
Freight (a domestic forwarder of air freight), and Emhart Corp.(originally a maker of bottling machinery only, but now also in
builders’ hardware).* There are some broad resemblances between
the three manufacturing firms, but the differences will seem moresignificant. There should be sufficient variety in the financial andoperating data to make the examination of interest.
In Table 13-1 we present a summary of what the four companies
were selling for in the market at the end of 1970, and a few figures
on their 1970 operations. We then detail certain key ratios, which
relate on the one hand to performance and on the other to price.
Comment is called for on how various aspects of the performance
pattern agree with the relative price pattern. Finally, we shall pass
the four companies in review, suggesting some comparisons andrelationships and evaluating each in terms of the requirements of a
conservative common-stock investor.
330* Of Graham’s four examples, only Emerson Electric still exists in the same
form. ELTRA Corp. is no longer an independent company; it merged with
Bunker Ramo Corp. in the 1970s, putting it in the business of supplyingstock quotes to brokerage firms across an early network of computers.What remains of 
ELTRA ’s operations is now part of Honeywell Corp. The firm
formerly known as Emery Air Freight is now a division of CNF Inc. EmhartCorp. was acquired by Black & Decker Corp. in 1989.TABLE 13-1 A Comparison of Four Listed Companies
ELTRA Emerson Electric Emery Air Freight Emhart Corp.
A. Capitalization
Price of common, Dec. 31, 1970 27 66 573⁄4 323⁄4
Number of shares of common 7,714,000 24,884,000a3,807,000 4,932,000
Market value of common $208,300,000 $1,640,000,000 $220,000,000 $160,000,000
Bonds and preferred stock 8,000,000 42,000,000 9,200,000
Total capitalization 216,300,000 1,682,000,000 220,000,000 169,200,000
B. Income Items
Sales, 1970 $454,000,000 $657,000,000 $108,000,000 $227,000,000
Net income, 1970 20,773,000 54,600,000 5,679,000 13,551,000
Earned per share, 1970 $2.70 $2.30 $1.49 $2.75b
Earned per share, ave., 1968–1970 2.78 2.10 1.28 2.81
Earned per share, ave., 1963–1965 1.54 1.06 .54 2.46
Earned per share, ave., 1958–1960 .54 .57 .17 1.21
Current dividend 1.20 1.16 1.00 1.20
C. Balance-sheet Items, 1970
Current assets $205,000,000 $307,000,000 $20,400,000 $121,000,000
Current liabilities 71,000,000 72,000,000 11,800,000 34,800,000
Net assets for common stock 207,000,000 257,000,000 15,200,000 133,000,000
Book value per share $27.05 $10.34 $3.96 $27.02
aAssuming conversion of preferred stock.
bAfter special charge of 13 cents per share.
cYear ended Sept. 1970.The most striking fact about the four companies is that the 
current price/earnings ratios vary much more widely than their
operating performance or financial condition. Two of the enter-prises— eltra and Emhart—were modestly priced at only 9.7
times and 12 times the average earnings for 1968–1970, as against asimilar figure of 15.5 times for the DJIA. The other two—Emerson
and Emery—showed very high multiples of 33 and 45 times suchearnings. There is bound to be some explanation of a difference
such as this, and it is found in the superior growth of the favored
companies’ profits in recent years, especially by the freight for-warder. (But the growth figures of the other two firms were notunsatisfactory.)
For more comprehensive treatment let us review briefly the
chief elements of performance as they appear from our figures.332 The Intelligent Investor
TABLE 13-2 A Comparison of Four Listed 
Companies ( continued)
Emerson Emery Emhart 
ELTRA Electric Air Freight Corp.
B. Ratios
Price/earnings, 1970 10.0 /H11003 30.0/H11003 38.5/H11003 11.9/H11003
Price/earnings, 1968–1970 9.7 /H11003 33.0/H11003 45.0/H11003 11.7/H11003
Price/book value 1.00 /H11003 6.37/H11003 14.3/H11003 1.22/H11003
Net/sales, 1970 4.6 % 8.5 % 5.4 % 5.7 %Net per share/book value 10.0 % 22.2 % 34.5 % 10.2 %
Dividend yield 4.45 % 1.78 % 1.76 % 3.65 %
Current assets to
current liabilities 2.9 /H11003 4.3/H11003 1.7/H11003 3.4/H11003
Working capital/debt Very large 5.6 /H11003 no debt 3.4 /H11003
Earnings growth per share:
1968–1970 vs. 1963–1965 + 81% + 87% + 135% +14 %1968–1970 vs. 1958–1970 +400% +250% Very large +132%
C. Price Record
1936–1968 Low
3⁄4 11⁄8 35⁄8
High 503⁄4 611⁄2 66 581⁄4
1970 Low 185⁄8 421⁄8 41 231⁄2
1971 High 293⁄8 783⁄4 72 443⁄81.Profitability. (a) All the companies show satisfactory earnings
on their book value, but the figures for Emerson and Emery are
much higher than for the other two. A high rate of return on
invested capital often goes along with a high annual growth rate inearnings per share.* All the companies except Emery showed bet-ter earnings on book value in 1969 than in 1961; but the Emery fig-ure was exceptionally large in both years. ( b) For manufacturing
companies, the profit figure per dollar of sales is usually an indica-
tion of comparative strength or weakness. We use here the “ratio of
operating income to sales,” as given in Standard & Poor’s Listed
Stock Reports. Here again the results are satisfactory for all four
companies, with an especially impressive showing by Emerson.The changes between 1961 and 1969 vary considerably among thecompanies.
2.Stability. This we measure by the maximum decline in per-
share earnings in any one of the past ten years, as against the aver-age of the three preceding years. No decline translates into 100%
stability, and this was registered by the two popular concerns. But
the shrinkages of eltra and Emhart were quite moderate in the
“poor year” 1970, amounting to only 8% each by our measurement,against 7% for the DJIA.
3.Growth. The two low-multiplier companies show quite satis-
factory growth rates, in both cases doing better than the Dow Jonesgroup. The eltra figures are especially impressive when set
against its low price/earnings ratio. The growth is of course moreimpressive for the high-multiplier pair.
4.Financial Position. The three manufacturing companies are in
sound financial condition, having better than the standard ratio of$2 of current assets for $1 of current liabilities. Emery Air Freighthas a lower ratio; but it falls in a different category, and with its fine
record it would have no problem raising needed cash. All the com-panies have relatively low long-term debt. “Dilution” note: Emer-
son Electric had $163 million of market value of low-dividendA Comparison of Four Listed Companies 333
* This measure is captured in the line “Net per share/book value” in Table
13-2, which measures the companies’ net income as a percentage of theirtangible book value.convertible preferred shares outstanding at the end of 1970. In 
our analysis we have made allowance for the dilution factor in 
the usual way by treating the preferred as if converted into com-
mon. This decreased recent earnings by about 10 cents per share, orsome 4%.
5.Dividends. What really counts is the history of continuance
without interruption. The best record here is Emhart’s, which hasnot suspended a payment since 1902. eltra’s record is very good,
Emerson’s quite satisfactory, Emery Freight is a newcomer. The
variations in payout percentage do not seem especially significant.The current dividend yield is twice as high on the “cheap pair” ason the “dear pair,” corresponding to the price/earnings ratios.
6.Price History. The reader should be impressed by the percent-
age advance shown in the price of all four of these issues, as mea-sured from the lowest to the highest points during the past 34
years. (In all cases the low price has been adjusted for subsequent
stock splits.) Note that for the DJIA the range from low to high was
on the order of 11 to 1; for our companies the spread has variedfrom “only” 17 to 1 for Emhart to no less than 528 to 1 for Emery
Air Freight.* These manifold price advances are characteristic of
most of our older common-stock issues, and they proclaim thegreat opportunities of profit that have existed in the stock markets
of the past. (But they may indicate also how overdone were the
declines in the bear markets before 1950 when the low prices wereregistered.) Both eltra and Emhart sustained price shrinkages of
more than 50% in the 1969–70 price break. Emerson and Emery had
serious, but less distressing, declines; the former rebounded to a
new all-time high before the end of 1970, the latter in early 1971.334 The Intelligent Investor
* In each case, Graham is referring to Section C of Table 13-2 and dividing
the high price during the 1936–1968 period by the low price. For example,Emery’s high price of 66 divided by its low price of 1/8 equals 528, or aratio of 528 to 1 between the high and low.General Observations on the Four Companies
Emerson Electric has an enormous total market value, dwarfing
the other three companies combined.* It is one of our “good-will
giants,” to be commented on later. A financial analyst blessed (orhandicapped) with a good memory will think of an analogybetween Emerson Electric and Zenith Radio, and that would not be
reassuring. For Zenith had a brilliant growth record for manyyears; it too sold in the market for $1.7 billion (in 1966); but its prof-
its fell from $43 million in 1968 to only half as much in 1970, and in
that year’s big selloff its price declined to 22
1⁄2against the previous
top of 89. High valuations entail high risks.
Emery Air Freight must be the most promising of the four compa-
nies in terms of future growth, if the price/earnings ratio of nearly 40
times its highest reported earnings is to be even partially justified.
The past growth, of course, has been most impressive. But these fig-ures may not be so significant for the future if we consider that they
started quite small, at only $570,000 of net earnings in 1958. It often
proves much more difficult to continue to grow at a high rate aftervolume and profits have already expanded to big totals. The mostsurprising aspect of Emery’s story is that its earnings and marketprice continued to grow apace in 1970, which was the worst year inthe domestic air-passenger industry. This is a remarkable achieve-ment indeed, but it raises the question whether future profits maynot be vulnerable to adverse developments, through increased com-petition, pressure for new arrangements between forwarders and air-
lines, etc. An elaborate study might be needed before a sound
judgment could be passed on these points, but the conservativeinvestor cannot leave them out of his general reckoning.
Emhart and eltra . Emhart has done better in its business than in
the stock market over the past 14 years. In 1958 it sold as high as 22times the current earnings—about the same ratio as for the DJIA.
Since then its profits tripled, as against a rise of less than 100% for
the Dow, but its closing price in 1970 was only a third above theA Comparison of Four Listed Companies 335
* At the end of 1970, Emerson’s $1.6 billion in market value truly was “enor-
mous, ” given average stock sizes at the time. At year-end 2002, Emerson’scommon stock had a total market value of approximately $21 billion.1958 high, versus 43% for the Dow. The record of eltra is some-
what similar. It appears that neither of these companies possesses
glamour, or “sex appeal,” in the present market; but in all the sta-
tistical data they show up surprisingly well. Their future pros-pects? We have no sage remarks to make here, but this is whatStandard & Poor’s had to say about the four companies in 1971:
eltra —“Long-term Prospects: Certain operations are cyclical, but an
established competitive position and diversification are offsetting fac-
tors.”
Emerson Electric—“While adequately priced (at 71) on the current
outlook, the shares have appeal for the long term ....A continued acqui-
sition policy together with a strong position in industrial fields and an
accelerated international program suggests further sales and earningsprogress.”
Emery Air Freight—“The shares appear amply priced (at 57) on cur-
rent prospects, but are well worth holding for the long pull.”
Emhart—“Although restricted this year by lower capital spending in
the glass-container industry, earnings should be aided by an improved
business environment in 1972. The shares are worth holding (at 34).”
Conclusions: Many financial analysts will find Emerson and
Emery more interesting and appealing stocks than the other two—
primarily, perhaps, because of their better “market action,” and
secondarily because of their faster recent growth in earnings.Under our principles of conservative investment the first is not a
valid reason for selection—that is something for the speculators to
play around with. The second has validity, but within limits. Canthe past growth and the presumably good prospects of Emery Air
Freight justify a price more than 60 times its recent earnings?
1Our
answer would be: Maybe for someone who has made an in-depthstudy of the possibilities of this company and come up with excep-
tionally firm and optimistic conclusions. But notfor the careful
investor who wants to be reasonably sure in advance that he is not
committing the typical Wall Street error of overenthusiasm for
good performance in earnings and in the stock market.* The same336 The Intelligent Investor
*Graham was right. Of the “Nifty Fifty” stocks that were most fashionable
and highly valued in 1972, Emery fared among the worst. The March 1,cautionary statements seem called for in the case of Emerson Elec-
tric, with a special reference to the market’s current valuation of
over a billion dollars for the intangible, or earning-power, factor
here. We should add that the “electronics industry,” once a fair-haired child of the stock market, has in general fallen on disastrousdays. Emerson is an outstanding exception, but it will have to con-tinue to be such an exception for a great many years in the futurebefore the 1970 closing price will have been fully justified by its
subsequent performance.
By contrast, both eltra at 27 and Emhart at 33 have the ear-
marks of companies with sufficient value behind their price to con-stitute reasonably protected investments. Here the investor can, if
he wishes, consider himself basically a part owner of these busi-nesses, at a cost corresponding to what the balance sheet shows tobe the money invested therein.* The rate of earnings on investedcapital has long been satisfactory; the stability of profits also; thepast growth rate surprisingly so. The two companies will meet our
seven statistical requirements for inclusion in a defensive investor’s
portfolio. These will be developed in the next chapter, but we sum-
marize them as follows:
1. Adequate size.2. A sufficiently strong financial condition.
3. Continued dividends for at least the past 20 years.
4. No earnings deficit in the past ten years.A Comparison of Four Listed Companies 337
1982, issue of Forbes reported that since 1972 Emery had lost 72.8% of its
value after inflation. By late 1974, according to the investment researchers
at the Leuthold Group in Minneapolis, Emery’s stock had already fallen 58%and its price/earnings ratio had plummeted from 64 times to just 15. The
“overenthusiasm” Graham had warned against was eviscerated in short
order. Can the passage of time make up for this kind of excess? Not always:Leuthold calculated that $1000 invested in Emery in 1972 would be worth
only $839 as of 1999. It’s likely that the people who overpaid for Internet
stocks in the late 1990s will not break even for decades—if ever (see thecommentary on Chapter 20).* Graham’s point is that, based on their prices at the time, an investor couldbuy shares in these two companies for little more than their book value, asshown in the third line of Section B in Table 13-2.5. Ten-year growth of at least one-third in per-share earnings.
6. Price of stock no more than 11⁄2times net asset value.
7. Price no more than 15 times average earnings of the past three
years.
We make no predictions about the future earnings performance
ofeltra or Emhart. In the investor’s diversified list of common
stocks there are bound to be some that prove disappointing, andthis may be the case for one or both of this pair. But the diversifiedlist itself, based on the above principles of selection, plus whateverother sensible criteria the investor may wish to apply, should per-form well enough across the years. At least, long experience tells 
us so.
A final observation: An experienced security analyst, even if he
accepted our general reasoning on these four companies, wouldhave hesitated to recommend that a holder of Emerson or Emery
exchange his shares for eltra or Emhart at the end of 1970—unless
the holder understood clearly the philosophy behind the recom-mendation. There was no reason to expect that in any short periodof time the low-multiplier duo would outperform the high-multipliers. The latter were well thought of in the market and thus
had a considerable degree of momentum behind them, which
might continue for an indefinite period. The sound basis for prefer-ring eltra and Emhart to Emerson and Emery would be the
client’s considered conclusion that he preferred value-type invest-ments to glamour-type investments. Thus, to a substantial extent,common-stock investment policy must depend on the attitude of
the individual investor. This approach is treated at greater length
in our next chapter.338 The Intelligent InvestorCOMMENTARY ON C HAPTER 13
In the Air Force we have a rule: check six. A guy is flying along,
looking in all directions, and feeling very safe. Another guy flies
up behind him (at “6 o’clock”—“12 o’clock” is directly in front)and shoots. Most airplanes are shot down that way. Thinkingthat you’re safe is very dangerous! Somewhere, there’s a weak-ness you’ve got to find. You must always check six o’clock.
—U.S. Air Force Gen. Donald Kutyna
E-BUSINESS
As Graham did, let’s compare and contrast four stocks, using their
reported numbers as of December 31, 1999—a time that will enable
us to view some of the most drastic extremes of valuation ever
recorded in the stock market.
Emerson Electric Co. (ticker symbol: EMR) was founded in 1890
and is the only surviving member of Graham’s original quartet; it makes a wide array of products, including power tools, air-conditioning equipment, and electrical motors.
EMC Corp. (ticker symbol: EMC) dates back to 1979 and enables
companies to automate the storage of electronic information overcomputer networks.
Expeditors International of Washington, Inc. (ticker symbol:
EXPD), founded in Seattle in 1979, helps shippers organize and track
the movement of goods around the world.
Exodus Communications, Inc. (ticker symbol: EXDS) hosts and
manages websites for corporate customers, along with other Internetservices; it first sold shares to the public in March 1998.
This table summarizes the price, performance, and valuation of
these companies as of year-end 1999:
339FIGURE 13-1 E-valuations
Exodus Expeditors  
Emerson Communications, International
Electric EMC Corp. Inc. of Washington
Capitalization
Closing price, 12/31/99, $ per share 57.37 54.62 44.41 21.68
Total return, 1999 (%) –3.1 157.1 1005.8 109.1
Total market cap, 12/31/99, $ millions 24845.9 111054.3 14358.4 2218.8
Total debt (including preferred stock), $ millions 4600.1 27.1 2555.7 0
Earnings
Total revenues, 1999, $ millions 14385.8 6715.6 242.1 1444.6
Net income, 1999, $ millions 1313.6 1010.6 –130.3 59.2
Earnings growth, 1995 through 1999 
(average annual %) 7.7 28.8 NM 19.8
Earnings per share (EPS), 1999 ($ fully diluted) 3.00 0.53 –0.38 0.55
EPS growth rate, 1995–1999 (average annual %) 8.3 28.8 NM 25.8
Annual dividend ($ per share), 1999 1.30 0 0 0.08
Balance sheet
Current assets, $ millions 5124.4 4320.4 1093.2 402.7
Current liabilities, $ millions 4590.4 1397.9 150.6 253.1
Book value per share ($ 12/31/99) 14.27 2.38 0.05 2.79
Valuation
Price/earnings ratio ( /H11003) 17.7 103.1 NM 39.4
Price/book value ( /H11003) 3.7 22.9 888.1 7.8
Net income/revenues 
(% net profit margin) 9.2 17.4 NM 4.1
Net income/book value (%) 21.0 22.2 NM 19.7
Working capital/debt ( /H11003) 0.1 107.8 0.4 no debt
Market cap/revenues ( /H11003) 1.7 16.5 59.3 1.5
Sources: Value Line, Thomson/Baseline, Bloomberg, finance.yahoo.com, the companies’ SEC filings
Notes: All figures adjusted for later stock splits. Debt, r evenue, and earnings are for fiscal years. Market cap: total value o f common stock. 
NM: not meaningful.ELECTRIC, NOT ELECTRIFYING
The most expensive of Graham’s four stocks, Emerson Electric, ended
up as the cheapest in our updated group. With its base in Old Econ-omy industries, Emerson looked boring in the late 1990s. (In the Inter-net Age, who cared about Emerson’s heavy-duty wet-dry vacuums?)The company’s shares went into suspended animation. In 1998 and
1999, Emerson’s stock lagged the S & P 500 index by a cumulative
49.7 percentage points, a miserable underperformance.
But that was Emerson the stock. What about Emerson the com-
pany? In 1999, Emerson sold $14.4 billion worth of goods and ser-
vices, up nearly $1 billion from the year before. On those revenuesEmerson earned $1.3 billion in net income, or 6.9% more than in1998. Over the previous five years, earnings per share had risen at a
robust average rate of 8.3%. Emerson’s dividend had more than dou-bled to $1.30 per share; book value had gone from $6.69 to $14.27
per share. According to Value Line, throughout the 1990s, Emerson’s
net profit margin and return on capital—key measures of its efficiencyas a business—had stayed robustly high, around 9% and 18% respec-
tively. What’s more, Emerson had increased its earnings for 42 years
in a row and had raised its dividend for 43 straight years—one of thelongest runs of steady growth in American business. At year-end,
Emerson’s stock was priced at 17 .7 times the company’s net income
per share. Like its power tools, Emerson was never flashy, but it wasreliable—and showed no sign of overheating.
COULD EMC GROW PDQ?
EMC Corp. was one of the best-performing stocks of the 1990s, 
rising—or should we say levitating?—more than 81,000%. If you hadinvested $10,000 in EMC’s stock at the beginning of 1990, you
would have ended 1999 with just over $8.1 million. EMC’s shares
returned 157 .1% in 1999 alone—more than Emerson’s stock hadgained in the eight years from 1992 through 1999 combined. EMC
had never paid a dividend, instead retaining all its earnings “to provide
funds for the continued growth of the company. ”
1At their DecemberCommentary on Chapter 13 341
1As we will see in Chapter 19, this rationale often means, in practice, “to pro-
vide funds for the continued growth of the company’s top managers’ wealth. ”31 price of $54.625, EMC’s shares were trading at 103 times the
earnings the company would report for the full year—nearly six timesthe valuation level of Emerson’s stock.
What about EMC the business? Revenues grew 24% in 1999, ris-
ing to $6.7 billion. Its earnings per share soared to 92 cents from 61
cents the year before, a 51% increase. Over the five years ending in1999, EMC’s earnings had risen at a sizzling annual rate of 28.8%.
And, with everyone expecting the tidal wave of Internet commerce to
keep rolling, the future looked even brighter. Throughout 1999, EMC’schief executive repeatedly predicted that revenues would hit $10 bil-
lion by 2001—up from $5.4 billion in 1998.
2That would require aver-
age annual growth of 23%, a monstrous rate of expansion for so big a
company. But Wall Street’s analysts, and most investors, were sureEMC could do it. After all, over the previous five years, EMC had more
than doubled its revenues and better than tripled its net income.
But from 1995 through 1999, according to Value Line, EMC’s net
profit margin slid from 19.0% to 17 .4%, while its return on capitaldropped from 26.8% to 21%. Although still highly profitable, EMC
was already slipping. And in October 1999, EMC acquired Data Gen-eral Corp., which added roughly $1.1 billion to EMC’s revenues that
year. Simply by subtracting the extra revenues brought in from Data
General, we can see that the volume of EMC’s existing businessesgrew from $5.4 billion in 1998 to just $5.6 billion in 1999, a rise of
only 3.6%. In other words, EMC’s true growth rate was almost nil—
even in a year when the scare over the “Y2K” computer bug had ledmany companies to spend record amounts on new technology.
3342 Commentary on Chapter 13
2Appearing on CNBC on December 30, 1999, EMC’s chief executive,
Michael Ruettgers, was asked by host Ron Insana whether “2000 and
beyond” would be as good as the 1990s had been. “It actually looks like it’s
accelerating, ” boasted Ruettgers. When Insana asked if EMC’s stock wasovervalued, Ruettgers answered: “I think when you look at the opportunity
we have in front of us, it’s almost unlimited. . . . So while it’s hard to predict
whether these things are overpriced, there’s such a major change taking
place that if you could find the winners today—and I certainly think EMC isone of those people—you’ll be well rewarded in the future. ”
3The “Y2K bug” or the “Year 2000 Problem” was the belief that millions of
computers worldwide would stop functioning at one second past midnightA SIMPLE TWIST OF FREIGHT
Unlike EMC, Expeditors International hadn’t yet learned to levitate.
Although the firm’s shares had risen 30% annually in the 1990s, muchof that big gain had come at the very end, as the stock raced to a109.1% return in 1999. The year before, Expeditors’ shares had goneup just 9.5%, trailing the S & P 500 index by more than 19 percentage
points.
What about the business? Expeditors was growing expeditiously
indeed: Since 1995, its revenues had risen at an average annual rate
of 19.8%, nearly tripling over the period to finish 1999 at $1.4 billion.And earnings per share had grown by 25.8% annually, while dividendshad risen at a 27% annual clip. Expeditors had no long-term debt, andits working capital had nearly doubled since 1995. According to ValueLine, Expeditors’ book value per share had increased 129% and itsreturn on capital had risen by more than one-third to 21%.
By any standard, Expeditors was a superb business. But the little
freight-forwarding company, with its base in Seattle and much of itsoperations in Asia, was all-but-unknown on Wall Street. Only 32% of
the shares were owned by institutional investors; in fact, Expeditors
had only 8,500 shareholders. After doubling in 1999, the stock waspriced at 39 times the net income Expeditors would earn for the year—
no longer anywhere near cheap, but well below the vertiginous valua-
tion of EMC.
THE PROMISED LAND?
By the end of 1999, Exodus Communications seemed to have taken
its shareholders straight to the land of milk and honey. The stock
soared 1,005.8% in 1999—enough to turn a $10,000 investment onJanuary 1 into more than $110,000 by December 31. Wall Street’s
leading Internet-stock analysts, including the hugely influential HenryCommentary on Chapter 13 343
on the morning of January 1, 2000, because programmers in the 1960s and
1970s had not thought to allow for the possibility of any date past12/31/1999 in their operating code. U.S. companies spent billions of dol-lars in 1999 to ensure that their computers would be “Y2K-compliant. ” In theend, at 12:00:01 
A.M. on January 1, 2000, everything worked just fine.Blodget of Merrill Lynch, were predicting that the stock would rise
another 25% to 125% over the coming year.
And best of all, in the eyes of the online traders who gorged on
Exodus’s gains, was the fact that the stock had split 2-for-1 three
times during 1999. In a 2-for-1 stock split, a company doubles thenumber of its shares and halves their price—so a shareholder ends upowning twice as many shares, each priced at half the former level.
What’s so great about that? Imagine that you handed me a dime, and
I then gave you back two nickels and asked, “Don’t you feel richernow?” You would probably conclude either that I was an idiot, or that I
had mistaken you for one. And yet, in 1999’s frenzy over dot-comstocks, online traders acted exactly as if two nickels were more valu-able than one dime. In fact, just the news that a stock would be split-ting 2-for-1 could instantly drive its shares up 20% or more.
Why? Because getting more shares makes people feel richer.
Someone who bought 100 shares of Exodus in January watched themturn into 200 when the stock split in April; then those 200 turned into
400 in August; then the 400 became 800 in December. It was thrillingfor these people to realize that they had gotten 700 more shares just
for owning 100 in the first place. To them, that felt like “found money”—
never mind that the price per share had been cut in half with eachsplit.
4In December, 1999, one elated Exodus shareholder, who went
by the handle “givemeadollar, ” exulted on an online message board:“I’m going to hold these shares until I’m 80, [because] after it splitshundreds of times over the next years, I’ll be close to becoming
CEO. ”
5
What about Exodus the business? Graham wouldn’t have touched
it with a 10-foot pole and a haz-mat suit. Exodus’s revenues were
exploding—growing from $52.7 million in 1998 to $242.1 million in1999—but it lost $130.3 million on those revenues in 1999, nearly
double its loss the year before. Exodus had $2.6 billion in total debt—
and was so starved for cash that it borrowed $971 million in the344 Commentary on Chapter 13
4For more on the folly of stock splits, see Jason Zweig, “Splitsville, ” Money,
March, 2001, pp. 55–56.
5Posting no. 3622, December 7 , 1999, at the Exodus Communications
message board on the Raging Bull website (http://ragingbull.lycos.com/
mboard/boards.cgi?board=EXDS&read=3622).month of December alone. According to Exodus’s annual report, that
new borrowing would add more than $50 million to its interest pay-ments in the coming year. The company started 1999 with $156 mil-lion in cash and, even after raising $1.3 billion in new financing,finished the year with a cash balance of $1 billion—meaning that its
businesses had devoured more than $400 million in cash during1999. How could such a company ever pay its debts?
But, of course, online traders were fixated on how far and fast the
stock had risen, not on whether the company was healthy. “This stock, ”
bragged a trader using the screen name of “Launch_Pad1999, ” “will justcontinue climbing to infinity and beyond. ”
6
The absurdity of Launch_Pad’s prediction—what is “beyond” infin-
ity?—is the perfect reminder of one of Graham’s classic warnings.“Today’s investor, ” Graham tells us,
is so concerned with anticipating the future that he is already paying
handsomely for it in advance. Thus what he has projected with so muchstudy and care may actually happen and still not bring him any profit. If it
should fail to materialize to the degree expected he may in fact be faced
with a serious temporary and perhaps even permanent loss. ”
7
WHERE THE E SENDED UP
How did these four stocks perform after 1999?
Emerson Electric went on to gain 40.7% in 2000. Although the
shares lost money in both 2001 and 2002, they nevertheless ended
2002 less than 4% below their final price of 1999.
EMC also rose in 2000, gaining 21.7%. But then the shares lost
79.4% in 2001 and another 54.3% in 2002. That left them 88%
below their level at year-end 1999. What about the forecast of $10billion in revenues by 2001? EMC finished that year with revenues ofjust $7 .1 billion (and a net loss of $508 million).Commentary on Chapter 13 345
6Posting no. 3910, December 15, 1999, at the Exodus Communications
message board on the Raging Bull website (http://ragingbull.lycos.com/
mboard/boards.cgi?board=EXDS&read=3910).
7See Graham’s speech, “The New Speculation in Common Stocks, ” in the
Appendix, p. 563.Meanwhile, as if the bear market did not even exist, Expeditors
International’s shares went on to gain 22.9% in 2000, 6.5% in 2001,
and another 15.1% in 2002—finishing that year nearly 51% higherthan their price at the end of 1999.
Exodus’s stock lost 55% in 2000 and 99.8% in 2001. On Septem-
ber 26, 2001, Exodus filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection.
Most of the company’s assets were bought by Cable & Wireless, the
British telecommunications giant. Instead of delivering its sharehold-
ers to the promised land, Exodus left them exiled in the wilderness. Asof early 2003, the last trade in Exodus’s stock was at one penny a
share.346 Commentary on Chapter 13CHAPTER 14
Stock Selection for the Defensive Investor
It is time to turn to some broader applications of the techniques of
security analysis. Since we have already described in general terms
the investment policies recommended for our two categories ofinvestors,* it would be logical for us now to indicate how securityanalysis comes into play in order to implement these policies. The
defensive investor who follows our suggestions will purchase only
high-grade bonds plus a diversified list of leading common stocks.He is to make sure that the price at which he bought the latter is
not unduly high as judged by applicable standards.
In setting up this diversified list he has a choice of two
approaches, the DJIA-type of portfolio and the quantitatively-
tested portfolio. In the first he acquires a true cross-section sampleof the leading issues, which will include both some favored growthcompanies, whose shares sell at especially high multipliers, and
also less popular and less expensive enterprises. This could be
done, most simply perhaps, by buying the same amounts of allthirty of the issues in the Dow-Jones Industrial Average (DJIA). Ten
shares of each, at the 900 level for the average, would cost an
aggregate of about $16,000.
1On the basis of the past record he
might expect approximately the same future results by buying
shares of several representative investment funds.†
His second choice would be to apply a set of standards to each
347* Graham describes his recommended investment policies in Chapters 4
through 7 .† As we have discussed in the commentaries on Chapters 5 and 9, today’sdefensive investor can achieve this goal simply by buying a low-cost indexfund, ideally one that tracks the return of the total U.S. stock market.purchase, to make sure that he obtains (1) a minimum of quality in
the past performance and current financial position of the com-
pany, and also (2) a minimum of quantity in terms of earnings and
assets per dollar of price. At the close of the previous chapter we
listed seven such quality and quantity criteria suggested for theselection of specific common stocks. Let us describe them in order.
1. Adequate Size of the Enterprise
All our minimum figures must be arbitrary and especially in the
matter of size required. Our idea is to exclude small companies
which may be subject to more than average vicissitudes especiallyin the industrial field. (There are often good possibilities in suchenterprises but we do not consider them suited to the needs of thedefensive investor.) Let us use round amounts: not less than $100million of annual sales for an industrial company and, not less than
$50 million of total assets for a public utility.
2. A Sufficiently Strong Financial Condition
For industrial companies current assets should be at least twice
current liabilities—a so-called two-to-one current ratio. Also, long-
term debt should not exceed the net current assets (or “workingcapital”). For public utilities the debt should not exceed twice thestock equity (at book value).
3. Earnings Stability
Some earnings for the common stock in each of the past ten
years.4. Dividend Record
Uninterrupted payments for at least the past 20 years.
5. Earnings Growth
A minimum increase of at least one-third in per-share earnings
in the past ten years using three-year averages at the beginning
and end.348 The Intelligent Investor6. Moderate Price/Earnings Ratio
Current price should not be more than 15 times average earn-
ings of the past three years.
7. Moderate Ratio of Price to Assets
Current price should not be more than 11⁄2times the book value last
reported. However, a multiplier of earnings below 15 could justify a
correspondingly higher multiplier of assets. As a rule of thumb wesuggest that the product of the multiplier times the ratio of price to
book value should not exceed 22.5. (This figure corresponds to 15times earnings and 1
1⁄2times book value. It would admit an issue sell-
ing at only 9 times earnings and 2.5 times asset value, etc.)
General Comments: These requirements are set up especially
for the needs and the temperament of defensive investors. Theywill eliminate the great majority of common stocks as candidatesfor the portfolio, and in two opposite ways. On the one hand theywill exclude companies that are (1) too small, (2) in relatively weakfinancial condition, (3) with a deficit stigma in their ten-yearrecord, and (4) not having a long history of continuous dividends.Of these tests the most severe under recent financial conditions arethose of financial strength. A considerable number of our large and
formerly strongly entrenched enterprises have weakened their cur-
rent ratio or overexpanded their debt, or both, in recent years.
Our last two criteria are exclusive in the opposite direction, by
demanding more earnings and more assets per dollar of price thanthe popular issues will supply. This is by no means the standardviewpoint of financial analysts; in fact most will insist that even
conservative investors should be prepared to pay generous prices
for stocks of the choice companies. We have expounded our con-trary view above; it rests largely on the absence of an adequate fac-
tor of safety when too large a portion of the price must depend on
ever-increasing earnings in the future. The reader will have todecide this important question for himself—after weighing thearguments on both sides.
We have nonetheless opted for the inclusion of a modest
requirement of growth over the past decade. Without it the typicalcompany would show retrogression, at least in terms of profit perStock Selection for the Defensive Investor 349dollar of invested capital. There is no reason for the defensive
investor to include such companies—though if the price is low
enough they could qualify as bargain opportunities.
The suggested maximum figure of 15 times earnings might well
result in a typical portfolio with an average multiplier of, say, 12 to
13 times. Note that in February 1972 American Tel. & Tel. sold at 11
times its three-year (and current) earnings, and Standard Oil ofCalifornia at less than 10 times latest earnings. Our basic recom-
mendation is that the stock portfolio, when acquired, should have
an overall earnings/price ratio—the reverse of the P/E ratio—atleast as high as the current high-grade bond rate. This would mean
a P/E ratio no higher than 13.3 against an AA bond yield of 7.5%.*
Application of Our Criteria to the DJIA at the End of 1970
All of our suggested criteria were satisfied by the DJIA issues at
the end of 1970, but two of them just barely. Here is a survey basedon the closing price of 1970 and the relevant figures. (The basic
data for each company are shown in Tables 14-1 and 14-2.)
1. Size is more than ample for each company.2. Financial condition is adequate in the aggregate, but not for
every company.
2
3. Some dividend has been paid by every company since at least
1940. Five of the dividend records go back to the last century.350 The Intelligent Investor
* In early 2003, the yield on 10-year, AA-rated corporate bonds was around
4.6%, suggesting—by Graham’s formula—that a stock portfolio should have
an earnings-to-price ratio at least that high. Taking the inverse of that num-
ber (by dividing 4.6 into 100), we can derive a “suggested maximum” P/Eratio of 21.7 . At the beginning of this paragraph Graham recommends that
the “average” stock be priced about 20% below the “maximum” ratio. That
suggests that—in general—Graham would consider stocks selling at no morethan 17 times their three-year average earnings to be potentially attractivegiven today’s interest rates and market conditions. As of December 31,2002, more than 200—or better than 40%—of the stocks in the S & P 500-stock index had three-year average P/E ratios of 17 .0 or lower. Updated AAbond yields can be found at www.bondtalk.com.Stock Selection for the Defensive Investor 351
TABLE 14-1 Basic Data on 30 Stocks in the Dow Jones Industrial
Average at September 30, 1971
“Earnings Per Share”a
Price Ave. Ave. Net
Sept. 30, Sept. 30, 1968– 1958– Div. Asset Current
1971 1971 1970 1960 Since Value Div.
Allied Chemical 321⁄2 1.40 1.82 2.14 1887 26.02 1.20
Aluminum Co. of Am. 451⁄2 4.25 5.18 2.08 1939 55.01 1.80
Amer. Brands 431⁄2 4.32 3.69 2.24 1905 13.46 2.10
Amer. Can 331⁄4 2.68 3.76 2.42 1923 40.01 2.20
Amer. Tel. & Tel. 43 4.03 3.91 2.52 1881 45.47 2.60
Anaconda 15 2.06 3.90 2.17 1936 54.28 noneBethlehem Steel 25
1⁄2 2.64 3.05 2.62 1939 44.62 1.20
Chrysler 281⁄2 1.05 2.72 (0.13) 1926 42.40 0.60
DuPont 154 6.31 7.32 8.09 1904 55.22 5.00Eastman Kodak 87 2.45 2.44 0.72 1902 13.70 1.32General Electric 61
1⁄4 2.63 1.78 1.37 1899 14.92 1.40
General Foods 34 2.34 2.23 1.13 1922 14.13 1.40General Motors 83 3.33 4.69 2.94 1915 33.39 3.40Goodyear 33
1⁄2 2.11 2.01 1.04 1937 18.49 0.85
Inter. Harvester 281⁄2 1.16 2.30 1.87 1910 42.06 1.40
Inter. Nickel 31 2.27 2.10 0.94 1934 14.53 1.00Inter. Paper 33 1.46 2.22 1.76 1946 23.68 1.50Johns-Manville 39 2.02 2.33 1.62 1935 24.51 1.20Owens-Illinois 52 3.89 3.69 2.24 1907 43.75 1.35Procter & Gamble 71 2.91 2.33 1.02 1891 15.41 1.50Sears Roebuck 68
1⁄2 3.19 2.87 1.17 1935 23.97 1.55
Std. Oil of Calif. 56 5.78 5.35 3.17 1912 54.79 2.80Std. Oil of N.J. 72 6.51 5.88 2.90 1882 48.95 3.90Swift & Co. 42 2.56 1.66 1.33 1934 26.74 0.70Texaco 32 3.24 2.96 1.34 1903 23.06 1.60Union Carbide 43
1⁄2 2.59 2.76 2.52 1918 29.64 2.00
United Aircraft 301⁄2 3.13 4.35 2.79 1936 47.00 1.80
U. S. Steel 291⁄2 3.53 3.81 4.85 1940 65.54 1.60
Westinghouse 961⁄2 3.26 3.44 2.26 1935 33.67 1.80
Woolworth 49 2.47 2.38 1.35 1912 25.47 1.20
aAdjusted for stock dividends and stock splits.
bTypically for the 12 months ended June 30, 1971.Allied Chemical 18.3 /H11003 18.0/H11003 3.7% (–15.0%) 2.1 /H11003 74% 125%
Aluminum Co. of Am. 10.7 8.8 4.0 149.0% 2.7 51 84
Amer. Brands 10.1 11.8 5.1 64.7 2.1 138 282
Amer. Can 12.4 8.9 6.6 52.5 2.1 91 83
Amer. Tel. & Tel. 10.8 11.0 6.0 55.2 1.1 —c94
Anaconda 5.7 3.9 — 80.0 2.9 80 28
Bethlehem Steel 12.4 8.1 4.7 16.4 1.7 68 58
Chrysler 27.0 10.5 2.1 —d1.4 78 67
DuPont 24.5 21.0 3.2 (–9.0) 3.6 609 280
Eastman Kodak 35.5 35.6 1.5 238.9 2.4 1764 635
General Electric 23.4 34.4 2.3 29.9 1.3 89 410
General Foods 14.5 15.2 4.1 97.3 1.6 254 240
General Motors 24.4 17.6 4.1 59.5 1.9 1071 247
Goodyear 15.8 16.7 2.5 93.3 2.1 129 80
Inter. Harvester 24.5 12.4 4.9 23.0 2.2 191 66
Inter. Nickel 13.6 16.2 3.2 123.4 2.5 131 213TABLE 14-2 Significant Ratios of DJIA Stocks at September 30, 1971
Price to EarningsEarnings
Growth
1968–1970
vs.
1958–1960 Sept. 1971 1968–1970Current
Div.
YieldPrice/
Net Asset
Value CA/CLaNCA/
DebtbInter. Paper 22.5 14.0 4.6 26.1 2.2 62 139
Johns-Manville 19.3 16.8 3.0 43.8 2.6 — 158
Owens-Illinois 13.2 14.0 2.6 64.7 1.6 51 118
Procter & Gamble 24.2 31.6 2.1 128.4 2.4 400 460
Sears Roebuck 21.4 23.8 1.7 145.3 1.6 322 285
Std. Oil of Calif. 9.7 10.5 5.0 68.8 1.5 79 102
Std. Oil of N.J. 11.0 12.2 5.4 102.8 1.5 94 115
Swift & Co. 16.4 25.5 1.7 24.8 2.4 138 158
Texaco 9.9 10.8 5.0 120.9 1.7 128 138
Union Carbide 16.6 15.8 4.6 9.5 2.2 86 146
United Aircraft 9.7 7.0 5.9 55.9 1.5 155 65
U. S. Steel 8.3 6.7 5.4 (–21.5) 1.7 51 63
Westinghouse El. 29.5 28.0 1.9 52.2 1.8 145 2.86
Woolworth 19.7 20.5 2.4 76.3 1.8 185 1.90
aFigures taken for fiscal 1970 year-end co. results.
bFigures taken from Moody’s Industrial Manual (1971).
cDebit balance for NCA. (NCA = net current assets.)
dReported deficit for 1958–1960.4. The aggregate earnings have been quite stable in the past
decade. None of the companies reported a deficit during the
prosperous period 1961–69, but Chrysler showed a small
deficit in 1970.
5. The total growth—comparing three-year averages a decade
apart—was 77%, or about 6% per year. But five of the firms didnot grow by one-third.
6. The ratio of year-end price to three-year average earnings was
839 to $55.5 or 15 to 1—right at our suggested upper limit.
7. The ratio of price to net asset value was 839 to 562—also just
within our suggested limit of 1
1⁄2to 1.
If, however, we wish to apply the same seven criteria to each
individual company, we would find that only five of them wouldmeet allour requirements. These would be: American Can, Ameri-
can Tel. & Tel., Anaconda, Swift, and Woolworth. The totals forthese five appear in Table 14-3. Naturally they make a much betterstatistical showing than the DJIA as a whole, except in the pastgrowth rate.
3
Our application of specific criteria to this select group of indus-
trial stocks indicates that the number meeting every one of our
tests will be a relatively small percentage of alllisted industrial
issues. We hazard the guess that about 100 issues of this sort could
have been found in the Standard & Poor’s Stock Guide at the end of
1970, just about enough to provide the investor with a satisfactoryrange of personal choice.*
The Public-Utility “Solution”
If we turn now to the field of public-utility stocks we find a
much more comfortable and inviting situation for the investor.†354 The Intelligent Investor
* An easy-to-use online stock screener that can sort the stocks in the S & P
500 by most of Graham’s criteria is available at: www.quicken.com/investments/stocks/search/full.† When Graham wrote, only one major mutual fund specializing in utilitystocks—Franklin Utilities—was widely available. Today there are more than30. Graham could not have anticipated the financial havoc wrought by can-TABLE 14-3 DJIA Issues Meeting Certain Investment Criteria at the End of 1970
American American Average, 
Can Tel. & Tel. Anaconda Swift Woolworth 5 Companies
Price Dec. 31, 1970 393⁄4 487⁄8 21 301⁄8 361⁄2
Price/earnings, 1970 11.0 /H11003 12.3/H11003 6.7/H11003 13.5/H11003 14.4/H11003 11.6/H11003
Price/earnings, 3 years 10.5 /H11003 12.5/H11003 5.4/H11003 18.1/H11003b15.1/H11003 12.3/H11003
Price/book value 99% 108% 38% 113% 148% 112%
Current assets/current liabilities 2.2 /H11003 n.a. 2.9 /H11003 2.3/H11003 1.8/H11003c2.3/H11003
Net current assets/debt 110% n.a. 120% 141% 190% 140%
Stability indexa85 100 72 77 99 86
Growtha55% 53% 78% 25% 73% 57%
aSee definition on p. 338.
bIn view of Swift’s good showing in the poor year 1970, we waive the 1968–1970 deficiency her e.
cThe small deficiency here below 2 to 1 was offset by mar gin for additional debt financing.
n.a. = not applicable. American Tel. & Tel.’s debt was less than its stock equity .Here the vast majority of issues appear to be cut out, by their per-
formance record and their price ratios, in accordance with the
defensive investor’s needs as we judge them. We exclude one crite-
rion from our tests of public-utility stocks—namely, the ratio ofcurrent assets to current liabilities. The working-capital factor takescare of itself in this industry as part of the continuous financing ofits growth by sales of bonds and shares. We do require an adequateproportion of stock capital to debt.
4
In Table 14-4 we present a résumé of the 15 issues in the Dow
Jones public-utility average. For comparison, Table 14-5 gives a
similar picture of a random selection of fifteen other utilities taken
from the New York Stock Exchange list.
As 1972 began the defensive investor could have had quite a
wide choice of utility common stocks, each of which would havemet our requirements for both performance and price. These com-panies offered him everything he had a right to demand from 
simply chosen common-stock investments. In comparison withprominent industrial companies as represented by the DJIA, they
offered almost as good a record of past growth, plus smaller fluctu-
ations in the annual figures—both at a lower price in relation to
earnings and assets. The dividend return was significantly higher.The position of the utilities as regulated monopolies is assuredly
more of an advantage than a disadvantage for the conservative
investor. Under law they are entitled to charge rates sufficientlyremunerative to attract the capital they need for their continuous
expansion, and this implies adequate offsets to inflated costs.
While the process of regulation has often been cumbersome andperhaps dilatory, it has not prevented the utilities from earning a
fair return on their rising invested capital over many decades.356 The Intelligent Investor
celed and decommissioned nuclear energy plants; nor did he foresee the
consequences of bungled regulation in California. Utility stocks are vastlymore volatile than they were in Graham’s day, and most investors should
own them only through a well-diversified, low-cost fund like the Dow Jones
U.S. Utilities Sector Index Fund (ticker symbol: IDU) or Utilities Select Sec-tor SPDR (XLU). For more information, see: www.ishares.com and www.spdrindex.com/spdr/. (Be sure your broker will not charge commissions toreinvest your dividends.)TABLE 14-4 Data on the Fifteen Stocks in the Dow Jones Utility Av erage at September 30, 1971
Earns.
Per Share 
Price Price/ 1970
Sept. 30, Book Price/ Book Div. vs. 
1971 EarnedaDividend Value Earnings Value Yield 1960
Am. Elec. Power 26 2.40 1.70 18.86 11 /H11003 138% 6.5% +87%
Cleveland El. Ill. 343⁄4 3.10 2.24 22.94 11 150 6.4 86
Columbia Gas System 33 2.95 1.76 25.58 11 129 5.3 85
Commonwealth Edison 351⁄2 3.05 2.20 27.28 12 130 6.2 56
Consolidated Edison 241⁄2 2.40 1.80 30.63 10 80 7.4 19
Consd. Nat. Gas 273⁄4 3.00 1.88 32.11 9 86 6.8 53
Detroit Edison 191⁄4 1.80 1.40 22.66 11 84 7.3 40
Houston Ltg. & Power 423⁄4 2.88 1.32 19.02 15 222 3.1 135
Niagara-Mohawk Pwr. 151⁄2 1.45 1.10 16.46 11 93 7.2 32
Pacific Gas & Electric 29 2.65 1.64 25.45 11 114 5.6 79
Panhandle E. Pipe L. 321⁄2 2.90 1.80 19.95 11 166 5.5 79
Peoples Gas Co. 311⁄2 2.70 2.08 30.28 8 104 6.6 23
Philadelphia El. 201⁄2 2.00 1.64 19.74 10 103 8.0 29
Public Svs. El. & Gas 251⁄2 2.80 1.64 21.81 9 116 6.4 80
Sou. Calif. Edison 291⁄4 2.80 1.50 27.28 10 107 5.1 85
Average 281⁄2 2.66 1.71 23.83 10.7/H11003 121% 6.2% +65%
aEstimated for year 1971.TABLE 14-5 Data on a Second List of Public-Utility Stocks at September 30, 1971
Earns.
Per Share 
Price Price/ 1970
Sept. 30, Book Price/ Book Div. vs. 
1971 Earned Dividend Value Earnings V alue Yield 1960
Alabama Gas 151⁄2 1.50 1.10 17.80 10 /H11003 87% 7.1% +34%
Allegheny Power 221⁄2 2.15 1.32 16.88 10 134 6.0 71
Am. Tel. & Tel. 43 4.05 2.60 45.47 11 95 6.0 47
Am. Water Works 14 1.46 .60 16.80 10 84 4.3 187
Atlantic City Elec. 201⁄2 1.85 1.36 14.81 11 138 6.6 74
Baltimore Gas & Elec. 301⁄4 2.85 1.82 23.03 11 132 6.0 86
Brooklyn Union Gas 231⁄2 2.00 1.12 20.91 12 112 7.3 29
Carolina Pwr. & Lt. 221⁄2 1.65 1.46 20.49 14 110 6.5 39
Cen. Hudson G. & E. 221⁄4 2.00 1.48 20.29 11 110 6.5 13
Cen. Ill. Lt. 251⁄4 2.50 1.56 22.16 10 114 6.5 55
Cen. Maine Pwr. 173⁄4 1.48 1.20 16.35 12 113 6.8 62
Cincinnati Gas & Elec. 231⁄4 2.20 1.56 16.13 11 145 6.7 102
Consumers Power 291⁄2 2.80 2.00 32.59 11 90 6.8 89
Dayton Pwr. & Lt. 23 2.25 1.66 16.79 10 137 7.2 94
Delmarva Pwr. & Lt. 161⁄2 1.55 1.12 14.04 11 117 6.7 78
Average 231⁄2 2.15 1.50 21.00 11 /H11003 112% 6.5% +71%For the defensive investor the central appeal of the public-utility
stocks at this time should be their availability at a moderate price
in relation to book value. This means that he can ignore stockmar-
ket considerations, if he wishes, and consider himself primarily asa part owner of well-established and well-earning businesses. Themarket quotations are always there for him to take advantage ofwhen times are propitious—either for purchases at unusuallyattractive low levels, or for sales when their prices seem definitely
too high.
The market record of the public-utility indexes—condensed in
Table 14-6, along with those of other groups—indicates that therehave been ample possibilities of profit in these investments in the
past. While the rise has not been as great as in the industrial index,the individual utilities have shown more price stability in mostperiods than have other groups.* It is striking to observe in thistable that the relative price/earnings ratios of the industrials andthe utilities have changed places during the past two decades.Stock Selection for the Defensive Investor 359
* In a remarkable confirmation of Graham’s point, the dull-sounding Stan-
dard & Poor’s Utility Index outperformed the vaunted NASDAQ CompositeIndex for the 30 years ending December 31, 2002.TABLE 14-6 Development of Prices and Price/Earnings Ratios
for Various Standard & Poor’s Averages,
1948–1970.
Industrials Railroads Utilities
Year PriceaP/E Ratio PriceaP/E Ratio PriceaP/E Ratio
1948 15.34 6.56 15.27 4.55 16.77 10.03
1953 24.84 9.56 22.60 5.42 24.03 14.00
1958 58.65 19.88 34.23 12.45 43.13 18.591963 79.25 18.18 40.65 12.78 66.42 20.44
1968 113.02 17.80 54.15 14.21 69.69 15.87
1970 100.00 17.84 34.40 12.83 61.75 13.16
aPrices are at the close of the year.These reversals will have more meaning for the active than for the
passive investor. But they suggest that even defensive portfolios
should be changed from time to time, especially if the securities
purchased have an apparently excessive advance and can bereplaced by issues much more reasonably priced. Alas! there willbe capital-gains taxes to pay—which for the typical investor seemsto be about the same as the Devil to pay. Our old ally, experience,tells us here that it is better to sell and pay the tax than not sell and
repent.
Investing in Stocks of Financial Enterprises
A considerable variety of concerns may be ranged under the
rubric of “financial companies.” These would include banks, insurance companies, savings and loan associations, credit and
small-loan companies, mortgage companies, and “investmentcompanies” (e.g., mutual funds).* It is characteristic of all theseenterprises that they have a relatively small part of their assets inthe form of material things—such as fixed assets and merchandiseinventories—but on the other hand most categories have short-term obligations well in excess of their stock capital. The questionof financial soundness is, therefore, more relevant here than in thecase of the typical manufacturing or commercial enterprise. This,
in turn, has given rise to various forms of regulation and supervi-
sion, with the design and general result of assuring againstunsound financial practices.
Broadly speaking, the shares of financial concerns have pro-
duced investment results similar to those of other types of commonshares. Table 14-7 shows price changes between 1948 and 1970 in
six groups represented in the Standard & Poor’s stock-price
indexes. The average for 1941–1943 is taken as 10, the base level.360 The Intelligent Investor
* Today the financial-services industry is made up of even more components,
including commercial banks; savings & loan and mortgage-financing compa-nies; consumer-finance firms like credit-card issuers; money managers andtrust companies; investment banks and brokerages; insurance companies;and firms engaged in developing or owning real estate, including real-estateinvestment trusts. Although the sector is much more diversified today,Graham’s caveats about financial soundness apply more than ever.The year-end 1970 figures ranged between 44.3 for the 9 New York
banks and 218 for the 11 life-insurance stocks. During the sub-
intervals there was considerable variation in the respective price
movements. For example, the New York City bank stocks did quitewell between 1958 and 1968; conversely the spectacular life-
insurance group actually lost ground between 1963 and 1968.
These cross-movements are found in many, perhaps most, of thenumerous industry groups in the Standard & Poor’s indexes.
We have no very helpful remarks to offer in this broad area of
investment—other than to counsel that the same arithmetical stan-dards for price in relation to earnings and book value be applied to
the choice of companies in these groups as we have suggested for
industrial and public-utility investments.
Railroad Issues
The railroad story is a far different one from that of the utilities.
The carriers have suffered severely from a combination of severecompetition and strict regulation. (Their labor-cost problem has ofStock Selection for the Defensive Investor 361
TABLE 14-7 Relative Price Movements of Stocks of Various
Types of Financial Companies Between 1948 
and 1970
1948 1953 1958 1963 1968 1970
Life insurance 17.1 59.5 156.6 318.1 282.2 218.0
Property and liability 
insurance 13.7 23.9 41.0 64.7 99.2 84.3
New York City banks 11.2 15.0 24.3 36.8 49.6 44.3Banks outside 
New York City 16.9 33.3 48.7 75.9 96.9 83.3
Finance companies 15.6 27.1 55.4 64.3 92.8 78.3
Small-loan companies 18.4 36.4 68.5 118.2 142.8 126.8
Standard & Poor’s 
composite 13.2 24.8 55.2 75.0 103.9 92.2
aYear-end figures from Standard & Poor’s stock-price indexes. Average of 1941–
1943 = 10.course been difficult as well, but that has not been confined to rail-
roads.) Automobiles, buses, and airlines have drawn off most of
their passenger business and left the rest highly unprofitable; the
trucks have taken a good deal of their freight traffic. More than halfof the railroad mileage of the country has been in bankruptcy (or“trusteeship”) at various times during the past 50 years.
But this half-century has not been all downhill for the carriers.
There have been prosperous periods for the industry, especially the
war years. Some of the lines have managed to maintain their earn-
ing power and their dividends despite the general difficulties.
The Standard & Poor’s index advanced sevenfold from the low
of 1942 to the high of 1968, not much below the percentage gain inthe public-utility index. The bankruptcy of the Penn Central Trans-portation Co., our most important railroad, in 1970 shocked thefinancial world. Only a year and two years previously the stocksold at close to the highest price level in its long history, and it hadpaid continuous dividends for more than 120 years! (On p. 423
below we present a brief analysis of this railroad to illustrate how a
competent student could have detected the developing weaknessesin the company’s picture and counseled against ownership of its
securities.) The market level of railroad shares as a whole was seri-
ously affected by this financial disaster.
It is usually unsound to make blanket recommendations of
whole classes of securities, and there are equal objections to broadcondemnations. The record of railroad share prices in Table 14-6shows that the group as a whole has often offered chances for a
large profit. (But in our view the great advances were in them-selves largely unwarranted.) Let us confine our suggestion to this:
There is no compelling reason for the investor to own railroad
shares; before he buys any he should make sure that he is getting
so much value for his money that it would be unreasonable to lookfor something else instead.*362 The Intelligent Investor
* Only a few major rail stocks now remain, including Burlington Northern,
CSX, Norfolk Southern, and Union Pacific. The advice in this section is atleast as relevant to airline stocks today—with their massive current lossesand a half-century of almost incessantly poor results—as it was to railroadsin Graham’s day.Selectivity for the Defensive Investor
Every investor would like his list to be better or more promising
than the average. Hence the reader will ask whether, if he gets him-
self a competent adviser or security analyst, he should not be able tocount on being supplied with an investment package of really supe-rior merits. “After all,” he may say, “the rules you have outlined are
pretty simple and easygoing. A highly trained analyst ought to beable to use all his skill and techniques to improve substantially on
something as obvious as the Dow Jones list. If not, what good are all
his statistics, calculations, and pontifical judgments?”
Suppose, as a practical test, we had asked a hundred security
analysts to choose the “best” five stocks in the Dow Jones Average,
to be bought at the end of 1970. Few would have come up withidentical choices and many of the lists would have differed com-pletely from each other.
This is not so surprising as it may at first appear. The underlying
reason is that the current price of each prominent stock pretty wellreflects the salient factors in its financial record plus the general
opinion as to its future prospects. Hence the view of any analyst thatone stock is a better buy than the rest must arise to a great extent
from his personal partialities and expectations, or from the placing
of his emphasis on one set of factors rather than on another in hiswork of evaluation. If all analysts were agreed that one particular
stock was better than all the rest, that issue would quickly advance
to a price which would offset all of its previous advantages.*Stock Selection for the Defensive Investor 363
* Graham is summarizing the “efficient markets hypothesis, ” or EMH, an aca-
demic theory claiming that the price of each stock incorporates all publicly
available information about the company. With millions of investors scouring
the market every day, it is unlikely that severe mispricings can persist forlong. An old joke has two finance professors walking along the sidewalk;
when one spots a $20 bill and bends over to pick it up, the other grabs his
arm and says, “Don’t bother. If it was really a $20 bill, someone would havetaken it already. ” While the market is not perfectly efficient, it is pretty closemost of the time—so the intelligent investor will stoop to pick up the stockmarket’s $20 bills only after researching them thoroughly and minimizing thecosts of trading and taxes.Our statement that the current price reflects both known facts
and future expectations was intended to emphasize the double
basis for market valuations. Corresponding with these two kinds
of value elements are two basically different approaches to securityanalysis. To be sure, every competent analyst looks forward to thefuture rather than backward to the past, and he realizes that hiswork will prove good or bad depending on what willhappen and
not on what hashappened. Nevertheless, the future itself can be
approached in two different ways, which may be called the way ofprediction (or projection) and the way of protection. *
Those who emphasize prediction will endeavor to anticipate
fairly accurately just what the company will accomplish in futureyears—in particular whether earnings will show pronounced andpersistent growth. These conclusions may be based on a very care-ful study of such factors as supply and demand in the industry—orvolume, price, and costs—or else they may be derived from arather naïve projection of the line of past growth into the future. If
these authorities are convinced that the fairly long-term prospects
are unusually favorable, they will almost always recommend thestock for purchase without paying too much regard to the level at
which it is selling. Such, for example, was the general attitude with
respect to the air-transport stocks—an attitude that persisted formany years despite the distressingly bad results often shown after
1946. In the Introduction we have commented on the disparity
between the strong price action and the relatively disappointingearnings record of this industry.364 The Intelligent Investor
* This is one of the central points of Graham’s book. All investors labor
under a cruel irony: We invest inthe present, but we invest forthe future.
And, unfortunately, the future is almost entirely uncertain. Inflation and inter-est rates are undependable; economic recessions come and go at random;geopolitical upheavals like war, commodity shortages, and terrorism arrive
without warning; and the fate of individual companies and their industries
often turns out to be the opposite of what most investors expect. Therefore,investing on the basis of projection is a fool’s errand; even the forecasts of
the so-called experts are less reliable than the flip of a coin. For most peo-ple, investing on the basis of protection —from overpaying for a stock and
from overconfidence in the quality of their own judgment—is the best solu-tion. Graham expands on this concept in Chapter 20.By contrast, those who emphasize protection are always espe-
cially concerned with the price of the issue at the time of study.
Their main effort is to assure themselves of a substantial margin of
indicated present value above the market price—which margincould absorb unfavorable developments in the future. Generallyspeaking, therefore, it is not so necessary for them to be enthusias-tic over the company’s long-run prospects as it is to be reasonablyconfident that the enterprise will get along.
The first, or predictive, approach could also be called the quali-
tative approach, since it emphasizes prospects, management, andother nonmeasurable, albeit highly important, factors that go
under the heading of quality. The second, or protective, approach
may be called the quantitative or statistical approach, since itemphasizes the measurable relationships between selling price andearnings, assets, dividends, and so forth. Incidentally, the quantita-tive method is really an extension—into the field of commonstocks—of the viewpoint that security analysis has found to be
sound in the selection of bonds and preferred stocks for invest-
ment.
In our own attitude and professional work we were always
committed to the quantitative approach. From the first we wantedto make sure that we were getting ample value for our money inconcrete, demonstrable terms. We were not willing to accept the
prospects and promises of the future as compensation for a lack of
sufficient value in hand. This has by no means been the standardviewpoint among investment authorities; in fact, the majority
would probably subscribe to the view that prospects, quality ofmanagement, other intangibles, and “the human factor” far out-
weigh the indications supplied by any study of the past record, the
balance sheet, and all the other cold figures.
Thus this matter of choosing the “best” stocks is at bottom a
highly controversial one. Our advice to the defensive investor isthat he let it alone. Let him emphasize diversification more than
individual selection. Incidentally, the universally accepted idea ofdiversification is, in part at least, the negation of the ambitious pre-tensions of selectivity. If one could select the best stocks unerringly,
one would only lose by diversifying. Yet within the limits of thefour most general rules of common-stock selection suggested forthe defensive investor (on pp. 114–115) there is room for a ratherconsiderable freedom of preference. At the worst the indulgence ofStock Selection for the Defensive Investor 365such preferences should do no harm; beyond that, it may add
something worthwhile to the results. With the increasing impact of
technological developments on long-term corporate results, the
investor cannot leave them out of his calculations. Here, as else-where, he must seek a mean between neglect and overemphasis.366 The Intelligent InvestorCOMMENTARY ON C HAPTER 14
He that resteth upon gains certain, shall hardly grow to great
riches; and he that puts all upon adventures, doth oftentimes
break and come to poverty: it is good therefore to guard adven-tures with certainties that may uphold losses.
—Sir Francis Bacon
GETTING STARTED
How should you tackle the nitty-gritty work of stock selection? Gra-
ham suggests that the defensive investor can, “most simply, ” buy every
stock in the DowJones Industrial Average. Today’s defensive investorcan do even better—by buying a total stock-market index fund that
holds essentially every stock worth having. A low-cost index fund is
the best tool ever created for low-maintenance stock investing—andany effort to improve on it takes more work (and incurs more risk and
higher costs) than a truly defensive investor can justify.
Researching and selecting your own stocks is not necessary; for
most people, it is not even advisable. However, some defensive
investors do enjoy the diversion and intellectual challenge of pickingindividual stocks—and, if you have survived a bear market and still
enjoy stock picking, then nothing that Graham or I could say will dis-
suade you. In that case, instead of making a total stock market index
fund your complete portfolio, make it the foundation of your portfolio.Once you have that foundation in place, you can experiment around
the edges with your own stock choices. Keep 90% of your stockmoney in an index fund, leaving 10% with which to try picking yourown stocks. Only after you build that solid core should you explore.(To learn why such broad diversification is so important, please seethe sidebar on the following page.)
367368 Commentary on Chapter 14
WHY DIVERSIFY?
During the bull market of the 1990s, one of the most common
criticisms of diversification was that it lowers your potential forhigh returns. After all, if you could identify the next Microsoft,
wouldn’t it make sense for you to put all your eggs into that one
basket?
Well, sure. As the humorist Will Rogers once said, “Don’t
gamble. Take all your savings and buy some good stock and
hold it till it goes up, then sell it. If it don’t go up, don’t buy it. ”
However, as Rogers knew, 20/20 foresight is not a gift
granted to most investors. No matter how confident we feel,
there’s no way to find out whether a stock will go up until after
we buy it. Therefore, the stock you think is “the next Micro-
soft” may well turn out to be the next MicroStrategy instead.
(That former market star went from $3,130 per share in March2000 to $15.10 at year-end 2002, an apocalyptic loss of
99.5%).
1Keeping your money spread across many stocks and
industries is the only reliable insurance against the risk of beingwrong.
But diversification doesn’t just minimize your odds of being
wrong. It also maximizes your chances of being right. Over longperiods of time, a handful of stocks turn into “superstocks” that
go up 10,000% or more. Money Magazine identified the 30
best-performing stocks over the 30 years ending in 2002—and,
even with 20/20 hindsight, the list is startlingly unpredictable.
Rather than lots of technology or health-care stocks, it includesSouthwest Airlines, Worthington Steel, Dollar General discount
stores, and snuff-tobacco maker UST Inc.
2If you think you
would have been willing to bet big on any of those stocks backin 1972, you are kidding yourself.
Think of it this way: In the huge market haystack, only a few
needles ever go on to generate truly gigantic gains. The more ofthe haystack you own, the higher the odds go that you will end
up finding at least one of those needles. By owning the entirehaystack (ideally through an index fund that tracks the total U.S.stock market) you can be sure to find every needle, thus captur-ing the returns of all the superstocks. Especially if you are aTESTING, TESTING
Let’s briefly update Graham’s criteria for stock selection.
Adequate size. Nowadays, “to exclude small companies, ” most
defensive investors should steer clear of stocks with a total market value
of less than $2 billion. In early 2003, that still left you with 437 of thecompanies in the Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index to choose from.
However, today’s defensive investors—unlike those in Graham’s day—
can conveniently own small companies by buying a mutual fund special-izing in small stocks. Again, an index fund like Vanguard Small-Cap Index
is the first choice, although active funds are available at reasonable cost
from such firms as Ariel, T. Rowe Price, Royce, and Third Avenue.
Strong financial condition. According to market strategists Steve
Galbraith and Jay Lasus of Morgan Stanley, at the beginning of 2003about 120 of the companies in the S & P 500 index met Graham’stest of a 2-to-1 current ratio. With current assets at least twice their
current liabilities, these firms had a sizeable cushion of working capitalthat—on average—should sustain them through hard times.
Wall Street has always abounded in bitter ironies, and the bursting
of the growth-stock bubble has created a doozy: In 1999 and 2000,
high-tech, bio-tech, and telecommunications stocks were supposed to
provide “aggressive growth” and ended up giving most of their
investors aggressive shrinkage instead. But, by early 2003, the wheelhad come full circle, and many of those aggressive growth stocks hadbecome financially conservative—loaded with working capital, rich incash, and often debt-free. This table provides a sampler:Commentary on Chapter 14 369
defensive investor, why look for the needles when you can ownthe whole haystack?
1Adjusted for stock splits. To many people, MicroStrategy really did look like
the next Microsoft in early 2000; its stock had gained 566.7% in 1999, and its
chairman, Michael Saylor, declared that “our future today is better than it was18 months ago. ” The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission later accusedMicroStrategy of accounting fraud, and Saylor paid an $8.3 million fine to set-tle the charges.
2Jon Birger, “The 30 Best Stocks, ” Money, Fall 2002, pp. 88–95.370 Commentary on Chapter 14
FIGURE 14-1 Everything New Is Old Again
Ratio of Ratio of
Current Long-Term
Assets to Debt to
Current Current Current Long-Term Working
Company Assets Liabilities Liabilities Debt Capital
Applied Micro 
Circuits 1091.2 61.9 17.6 0 none
Linear
Technology 1736.4 148.1 11.7 0 none
QLogic Corp. 713.1 69.6 10.2 0 noneAnalog Devices 3711.1 467.3 7.9 1274.5 0.39Qualcomm Inc. 4368.5 654.9 6.7 156.9 0.04Maxim Integrated 
Products 1390.5 212.3 6.5 0 none
Applied Materials 7878.7 1298.4 6.1 573.9 0.09Tellabs Inc. 1533.6 257.3 6.0 0.5 0.0004Scientific-Atlanta 1259.8 252.4 5.0 8.8 0.01Altera Corp. 1176.2 240.5 4.9 0 noneXilinx Inc. 1108.8 228.1 4.9 0 noneAmerican Power 
Conversion 1276.3 277.4 4.6 0 none
Chiron Corp. 1393.8 306.7 4.5 414.9 0.38Biogen Inc. 1194.7 265.4 4.5 39 0.04Novellus Systems 1633.9 381.6 4.3 0 noneAmgen Inc. 6403.5 1529.2 4.2 3039.7 0.62LSI Logic Corp. 1626.1 397.8 4.1 1287.1 1.05Rowan Cos. 469.9 116.0 4.1 494.8 1.40Biomet Inc. 1000.0 248.6 4.0 0 none
Siebel Systems 2588.4 646.5 4.0 315.6 0.16
All figures in millions of dollars from latest available financial statements as of
12/31/02. Working capital is current assets minus current liabilities.Long-term debt includes preferred stock, excludes deferred tax liabilities.Sources: Morgan Stanley; Baseline; EDGAR database at www.sec.gov.
In 1999, most of these companies were among the hottest of the market’s dar-
lings, offering the promise of high potential growth. By early 2003, they offeredhard evidence of true value.The lesson here is not that these stocks were “a sure thing, ” or that
you should rush out and buy everything (or anything) in this table.1
Instead, you should realize that a defensive investor can always pros-
per by looking patiently and calmly through the wreckage of a bear
market. Graham’s criterion of financial strength still works: If you builda diversified basket of stocks whose current assets are at least double
their current liabilities, and whose long-term debt does not exceedworking capital, you should end up with a group of conservativelyfinanced companies with plenty of staying power. The best valuestoday are often found in the stocks that were once hot and have since
gone cold. Throughout history, such stocks have often provided themargin of safety that a defensive investor demands.
Earnings stability. According to Morgan Stanley, 86% of all the
companies in the S & P 500 index have had positive earnings in everyyear from 1993 through 2002. So Graham’s insistence on “someearnings for the common stock in each of the past ten years” remainsa valid test—tough enough to eliminate chronic losers, but not sorestrictive as to limit your choices to an unrealistically small sample.
Dividend record. As of early 2003, according to Standard &
Poor’s, 354 companies in the S & P 500 (or 71% of the total) paid adividend. No fewer than 255 companies have paid a dividend for at
least 20 years in a row. And, according to S & P, 57 companies in the
index have raised their dividends for at least 25 consecutive years.
That’s no guarantee that they will do so forever, but it’s a comfort-
ing sign.
Earnings growth. How many companies in the S & P 500
increased their earnings per share by “at least one third, ” as Graham
requires, over the 10 years ending in 2002? (We’ll average eachcompany’s earnings from 1991 through 1993, and then determinewhether the average earnings from 2000 through 2002 were at least
33% higher.) According to Morgan Stanley, 264 companies in the 
S & P 500 met that test. But here, it seems, Graham set a very lowhurdle; 33% cumulative growth over a decade is less than a 3% aver-
age annual increase. Cumulative growth in earnings per share of at
least 50%—or a 4% average annual rise—is a bit less conservative. NoCommentary on Chapter 14 371
1By the time you read this, much will already have changed since year-end
2002.372 Commentary on Chapter 14
FIGURE 14-2 Steady Eddies
These companies have paid higher dividends with each passing year with no exception.
Company SectorCash
dividends
paid each
year since . . .Number of 
annual
dividend
increases in 
the past 
40 years
3M Co Industrials 1916 40
Abbott Laboratories Health Care 1926 35ALLTEL Corp Telecomm. Services 1961 37
Altria Group 
(formerly Philip Morris) Consumer Staples 1928 36AmSouth Bancorp Financials 1943 34
Anheuser-Busch Cos Consumer Staples 1932 39
Archer-Daniels-Midland Consumer Staples 1927 32Automatic Data Proc Industrials 1974 29
Avery Dennison Corp Industrials 1964 36
Bank of America Financials 1903 36Bard (C. R.) Health Care 1960 36
Becton, Dickinson Health Care 1926 38
CenturyTel Inc Telecomm. Services 1974 29Chubb Corp Financials 1902 28
Clorox Co Consumer Staples 1968 30
Coca-Cola Co Consumer Staples 1893 40Comerica Inc Financials 1936 39
ConAgra Foods Consumer Staples 1976 32
Consolidated Edison Utilities 1885 31Donnelley(R. R.) & Sons Industrials 1911 36
Dover Corp Industrials 1947 37
Emerson Electric Industrials 1947 40Family Dollar Stores Consumer Discretionary 1976 27First Tenn Natl Financials 1895 31Gannett Co Consumer Discretionary 1929 35General Electric Industrials 1899 35Grainger (W. W.) Industrials 1965 33Heinz (H. J.) Consumer Staples 1911 38Commentary on Chapter 14 373
Household Intl. Financials 1926 40
Jefferson-Pilot Financials 1913 36Johnson & Johnson Health Care 1944 40
Johnson Controls Consumer Discretionary 1887 29
KeyCorp Financials 1963 36Kimberly-Clark Consumer Staples 1935 34
Leggett & Platt Consumer Discretionary 1939 33
Lilly (Eli) Health Care 1885 38Lowe’s Cos. Consumer Discretionary 1961 40
May Dept Stores Consumer Discretionary 1911 31
McDonald’s Corp. Consumer Discretionary 1976 27McGraw-Hill Cos. Consumer Discretionary 1937 35
Merck & Co Health Care 1935 38
Nucor Corp. Materials 1973 30PepsiCo Inc. Consumer Staples 1952 35
Pfizer, Inc. Health Care 1901 39
PPG Indus. Materials 1899 37Procter & Gamble Consumer Staples 1891 40
Regions Financial Financials 1968 32
Rohm & Haas Materials 1927 38Sigma-Aldrich Materials 1970 28
Stanley Works Consumer Discretionary 1877 37
Supervalu Inc. Consumer Staples 1936 36Target Corp. Consumer Discretionary 1965 34
TECO Energy Utilities 1900 40
U.S. Bancorp Financials 1999 35VF Corp. Consumer Discretionary 1941 35
Wal-Mart Stores Consumer Discretionary 1973 29
Walgreen Co. Consumer Staples 1933 31
Source: Standard & Poor’s Corp.
Data as of 12/31/2002.fewer than 245 companies in the S & P 500 index met that criterion as
of early 2003, leaving the defensive investor an ample list to choosefrom. (If you double the cumulative growth hurdle to 100%, or 7%average annual growth, then 198 companies make the cutoff.)
Moderate P/E ratio. Graham recommends limiting yourself to
stocks whose current price is no more than 15 times average earnings
over the past three years. Incredibly, the prevailing practice on Wall
Street today is to value stocks by dividing their current price by some-
thing called “next year’s earnings. ” That gives what is sometimescalled “the forward P/E ratio. ” But it’s nonsensical to derive a
price/earnings ratio by dividing the known current price by unknownfuture earnings. Over the long run, money manager David Dreman hasshown, 59% of Wall Street’s “consensus” earnings forecasts miss themark by a mortifyingly wide margin—either underestimating or overesti-mating the actual reported earnings by at least 15%.
2Investing your
money on the basis of what these myopic soothsayers predict for the
coming year is as risky as volunteering to hold up the bulls-eye at anarchery tournament for the legally blind. Instead, calculate a stock’s
price/earnings ratio yourself, using Graham’s formula of current pricedivided by average earnings over the past three years.
3
As of early 2003, how many stocks in the Standard & Poor’s 500
index were valued at no more than 15 times their average earnings of
2000 through 2002? According to Morgan Stanley, a generous totalof 185 companies passed Graham’s test.
Moderate price-to-book ratio. Graham recommends a “ratio of
price to assets” (or price-to-book-value ratio) of no more than 1.5. Inrecent years, an increasing proportion of the value of companies has
come from intangible assets like franchises, brand names, and patents
and trademarks. Since these factors (along with goodwill from acqui-sitions) are excluded from the standard definition of book value, most
companies today are priced at higher price-to-book multiples than in
Graham’s day. According to Morgan Stanley, 123 of the companies inthe S & P 500 (or one in four) are priced below 1.5 times book value.374 Commentary on Chapter 14
2David Dreman, “Bubbles and the Role of Analysts’ Forecasts, ” The Journal
of Psychology and Financial Markets, vol. 3, no. 1 (2002), pp. 4–14.
3You can calculate this ratio by hand from a company’s annual reports or
obtain the data at websites like www.morningstar.com or http://finance.
yahoo.com.All told, 273 companies (or 55% of the index) have price-to-book
ratios of less than 2.5.
What about Graham’s suggestion that you multiply the P/E ratio by
the price-to-book ratio and see whether the resulting number is below
22.5? Based on data from Morgan Stanley, at least 142 stocks in theS & P 500 could pass that test as of early 2003, including DanaCorp., Electronic Data Systems, Sun Microsystems, and Washington
Mutual. So Graham’s “blended multiplier” still works as an initial
screen to identify reasonably-priced stocks.
DUE DILIGENCE
No matter how defensive an investor you are—in Graham’s sense of
wishing to minimize the work you put into picking stocks—there are a
couple of steps you cannot afford to skip:
Do your homework. Through the EDGAR database at www.sec.
gov, you get instant access to a company’s annual and quarterly
reports, along with the proxy statement that discloses the managers’
compensation, ownership, and potential conflicts of interest. Read at
least five years’ worth.
4
Check out the neighborhood. Websites like http://quicktake.
morningstar.com, http://finance.yahoo.com and www.quicken.com can
readily tell you what percentage of a company’s shares are owned byinstitutions. Anything over 60% suggests that a stock is scarcely
undiscovered and probably “overowned. ” (When big institutions sell,
they tend to move in lockstep, with disastrous results for the stock.Imagine all the Radio City Rockettes toppling off the front edge of the
stage at once and you get the idea.) Those websites will also tell you
who the largest owners of the stock are. If they are money-management firms that invest in a style similar to your own, that’s a
good sign.Commentary on Chapter 14 375
4For more on what to look for, see the commentary on Chapters 11, 12, and
19. If you are not willing to go to the minimal effort of reading the proxy and
making basic comparisons of financial health across five years’ worth ofannual reports, then you are too defensive to be buying individual stocks atall. Get yourself out of the stock-picking business and into an index fund,where you belong.CHAPTER 15
Stock Selection for the Enterprising Investor
In the previous chapter we have dealt with common-stock selec-
tion in terms of broad groups of eligible securities, from which the
defensive investor is free to make up any list that he or his adviserprefers, provided adequate diversification is achieved. Our empha-sis in selection has been chiefly on exclusions—advising on the one
hand against all issues of recognizably poor quality, and on the
other against the highest-quality issues if their price is so high as toinvolve a considerable speculative risk. In this chapter, addressed
to the enterprising investor, we must consider the possibilities and
the means of making individual selections which are likely to prove
more profitable than an across-the-board average.
What are the prospects of doing this successfully? We would be
less than frank, as the euphemism goes, if we did not at the outsetexpress some grave reservations on this score. At first blush the
case for successful selection appears self-evident. To get average
results—e.g., equivalent to the performance of the DJIA—shouldrequire no special ability of any kind. All that is needed is a portfo-
lio identical with, or similar to, those thirty prominent issues.
Surely, then, by the exercise of even a moderate degree of skill—derived from study, experience, and native ability—it should be
possible to obtain substantially better results than the DJIA.
Yet there is considerable and impressive evidence to the effect
that this is very hard to do, even though the qualifications of thosetrying it are of the highest. The evidence lies in the record of the
numerous investment companies, or “funds,” which have been inoperation for many years. Most of these funds are large enough tocommand the services of the best financial or security analysts inthe field, together with all the other constituents of an adequateresearch department. Their expenses of operation, when spread
376over their ample capital, average about one-half of 1% a year
thereon, or less. These costs are not negligible in themselves; but
when they are compared with the approximately 15% annual over-
all return on common stocks generally in the decade 1951–1960,and even the 6% return in 1961–1970, they do not bulk large. Asmall amount of superior selective ability should easily have over-come that expense handicap and brought in a superior net resultfor the fund shareholders.
Taken as a whole, however, the all-common-stock funds failed
over a long span of years to earn quite as good a return as wasshown on Standard & Poor’s 500-stock averages or the market as a
whole. This conclusion has been substantiated by several compre-
hensive studies. To quote the latest one before us, covering theperiod 1960–1968:*
It appears from these results that random portfolios of New
York Stock Exchange stocks with equal investment in each stock
performed on the average better over the period than did mutual
funds in the same risk class. The differences were fairly substantialfor the low- and medium-risk portfolios (3.7% and 2.5% respec-
tively per annum), but quite small for the high-risk portfolios
(0.2% per annum).
1
As we pointed out in Chapter 9, these comparative figures in no
way invalidate the usefulness of the investment funds as a finan-
cial institution. For they do make available to all members of theStock Selection for the Enterprising Investor 377
* The Friend-Blume-Crockett research covered January 1960, through June
1968, and compared the performance of more than 100 major mutual funds
against the returns on portfolios constructed randomly from more than 500
of the largest stocks listed on the NYSE. The funds in the Friend-Blume-Crockett study did better from 1965 to 1968 than they had in the first half
of the measurement period, much as Graham found in his own research
(see above, pp. 158 and 229–232). But that improvement did not last. Andthe thrust of these studies—that mutual funds, on average, underperform themarket by a margin roughly equal to their operating expenses and tradingcosts—has been reconfirmed so many times that anyone who doubts themshould found a financial chapter of The Flat Earth Society.investing public the possibility of obtaining approximately average
results on their common-stock commitments. For a variety of rea-
sons, most members of the public who put their money in common
stocks of their own choice fail to do nearly as well. But to the objec-tive observer the failure of the funds to better the performance of a broad average is a pretty conclusive indication that such anachievement, instead of being easy, is in fact extremely difficult.
Why should this be so? We can think of two different explana-
tions, each of which may be partially applicable. The first is thepossibility that the stock market does in fact reflect in the currentprices not only all the important facts about the companies’ past
and current performance, but also whatever expectations can be
reasonably formed as to their future. If this is so, then the diversemarket movements which subsequently take place—and these areoften extreme—must be the result of new developments and prob-abilities that could not be reliably foreseen. This would make theprice movements essentially fortuitous and random. To the extent
that the foregoing is true, the work of the security analyst—how-
ever intelligent and thorough—must be largely ineffective, becausein essence he is trying to predict the unpredictable.
The very multiplication of the number of security analysts may
have played an important part in bringing about this result. Withhundreds, even thousands, of experts studying the value factors
behind an important common stock, it would be natural to expect
that its current price would reflect pretty well the consensus ofinformed opinion on its value. Those who would prefer it to other
issues would do so for reasons of personal partiality or optimismthat could just as well be wrong as right.
We have often thought of the analogy between the work of the
host of security analysts on Wall Street and the performance of
master bridge players at a duplicate-bridge tournament. The for-mer try to pick the stocks “most likely to succeed”; the latter to get
top score for each hand played. Only a limited few can accomplish
either aim. To the extent that all the bridge players have about thesame level of expertness, the winners are likely to be determinedby “breaks” of various sorts rather than superior skill. On WallStreet the leveling process is helped along by the freemasonry thatexists in the profession, under which ideas and discoveries arequite freely shared at the numerous get-togethers of various sorts.378 The Intelligent InvestorIt is almost as if, at the analogous bridge tournament, the various
experts were looking over each other’s shoulders and arguing out
each hand as it was played.
The second possibility is of a quite different sort. Perhaps many
of the security analysts are handicapped by a flaw in their basic
approach to the problem of stock selection. They seek the indus-tries with the best prospects of growth, and the companies in theseindustries with the best management and other advantages. The
implication is that they will buy into such industries and such com-
panies at any price, however high, and they will avoid less promis-ing industries and companies no matter how low the price of their
shares. This would be the only correct procedure if the earnings of
the good companies were sure to grow at a rapid rate indefinitelyin the future, for then in theory their value would be infinite. Andif the less promising companies were headed for extinction, withno salvage, the analysts would be right to consider them unattrac-tive at any price.
The truth about our corporate ventures is quite otherwise.
Extremely few companies have been able to show a high rate ofuninterrupted growth for long periods of time. Remarkably few,
also, of the larger companies suffer ultimate extinction. For most,
their history is one of vicissitudes, of ups and downs, of change intheir relative standing. In some the variations “from rags to riches
and back” have been repeated on almost a cyclical basis—the
phrase used to be a standard one applied to the steel industry—forothers spectacular changes have been identified with deterioration
or improvement of management.*
How does the foregoing inquiry apply to the enterprising
investor who would like to make individual selections that willyield superior results? It suggests first of all that he is taking on aStock Selection for the Enterprising Investor 379
* As we discuss in the commentary on Chapter 9, there are several other
reasons mutual funds have not been able to outperform the market aver-
ages, including the low returns on the funds’ cash balances and the high
costs of researching and trading stocks. Also, a fund holding 120 compa-nies (a typical number) can trail the S & P 500-stock index if anyof the other
380 companies in that benchmark turns out to be a great performer. Thefewer stocks a fund owns, the more likely it is to miss “the next Microsoft. ”difficult and perhaps impracticable assignment. Readers of this
book, however intelligent and knowing, could scarcely expect to
do a better job of portfolio selection than the top analysts of the
country. But if it is true that a fairly large segment of the stock mar-ket is often discriminated against or entirely neglected in the stan-dard analytical selections, then the intelligent investor may be in aposition to profit from the resultant undervaluations.
But to do so he must follow specific methods that are not gener-
ally accepted on Wall Street, since those that are so accepted do notseem to produce the results everyone would like to achieve. Itwould be rather strange if—with all the brains at work profession-
ally in the stock market—there could be approaches which are both
sound and relatively unpopular. Yet our own career and reputationhave been based on this unlikely fact.*
A Summary of the Graham-Newman Methods
To give concreteness to the last statement, it should be worth-
while to give a brief account of the types of operations we engaged
in during the thirty-year life of Graham-Newman Corporation,
between 1926 and 1956.† These were classified in our records asfollows:
Arbitrages: The purchase of a security and the simultaneous sale380 The Intelligent Investor
* In this section, as he did also on pp. 363–364, Graham is summarizing the
Efficient Market Hypothesis. Recent appearances to the contrary, the prob-
lem with the stock market today is not that so many financial analysts are
idiots, but rather that so many of them are so smart. As more and moresmart people search the market for bargains, that very act of searching
makes those bargains rarer—and, in a cruel paradox, makes the analysts look
as if they lack the intelligence to justify the search. The market’s valuation ofa given stock is the result of a vast, continuous, real-time operation of col-
lective intelligence. Most of the time, for most stocks, that collective intelli-
gence gets the valuation approximately right. Only rarely does Graham’s“Mr. Market” (see Chapter 8) send prices wildly out of whack.† Graham launched Graham-Newman Corp. in January 1936, and dissolvedit when he retired from active money management in 1956; it was the suc-cessor to a partnership called the Benjamin Graham Joint Account, whichhe ran from January 1926, through December 1935.of one or more other securities into which it was to be exchanged
under a plan of reorganization, merger, or the like.
Liquidations: Purchase of shares which were to receive one or
more cash payments in liquidation of the company’s assets.
Operations of these two classes were selected on the twin basis
of (a) a calculated annual return of 20% or more, and (b) our judg-ment that the chance of a successful outcome was at least four outof five.
Related Hedges: The purchase of convertible bonds or convertible
preferred shares, and the simultaneous sale of the common stockinto which they were exchangeable. The position was established
at close to a parity basis—i.e., at a small maximum loss if the senior
issue had actually to be converted and the operation closed out inthat way. But a profit would be made if the common stock fell con-siderably more than the senior issue, and the position closed out inthe market.
Net-Current-Asset (or “Bargain”) Issues: The idea here was to
acquire as many issues as possible at a cost for each of less thantheir book value in terms of net-current-assets alone—i.e., givingno value to the plant account and other assets. Our purchases were
made typically at two-thirds or less of such stripped-down asset
value. In most years we carried a wide diversification here—atleast 100 different issues.
We should add that from time to time we had some large-scale
acquisitions of the control type, but these are not relevant to thepresent discussion.
We kept close track of the results shown by each class of opera-
tion. In consequence of these follow-ups we discontinued twobroader fields, which were found not to have shown satisfactory
overall results. The first was the purchase of apparently attractive
issues—based on our general analysis—which were not obtainableat less than their working-capital value alone. The second were
“unrelated” hedging operations, in which the purchased security
was not exchangeable for the common shares sold. (Such opera-tions correspond roughly to those recently embarked on by thenew group of “hedge funds” in the investment-company field.* InStock Selection for the Enterprising Investor 381
* An “unrelated” hedge involves buying a stock or bond issued by one com-
pany and short-selling (or betting on a decline in) a security issued by a dif-both cases a study of the results realized by us over a period of ten
years or more led us to conclude that the profits were not suffi-
ciently dependable—and the operations not sufficiently “headache
proof”—to justify our continuing them.
Hence from 1939 on our operations were limited to “self-
liquidating” situations, related hedges, working-capital bargains,and a few control operations. Each of these classes gave us quiteconsistently satisfactory results from then on, with the special fea-
ture that the related hedges turned in good profits in the bear mar-
kets when our “undervalued issues” were not doing so well.
We hesitate to prescribe our own diet for any large number of
intelligent investors. Obviously, the professional techniques wehave followed are not suitable for the defensive investor, who bydefinition is an amateur. As for the aggressive investor, perhapsonly a small minority of them would have the type of temperamentneeded to limit themselves so severely to only a relatively smallpart of the world of securities. Most active-minded practitioners
would prefer to venture into wider channels. Their natural hunting
grounds would be the entire field of securities that they felt (a)were certainly not overvalued by conservative measures, and (b)
appeared decidedly more attractive—because of their prospects or
past record, or both—than the average common stock. In suchchoices they would do well to apply various tests of quality and
price-reasonableness along the lines we have proposed for the
defensive investor. But they should be less inflexible, permitting aconsiderable plus in one factor to offset a small black mark in
another. For example, he might not rule out a company which hadshown a deficit in a year such as 1970, if large average earnings and
other important attributes made the stock look cheap. The enter-
prising investor may confine his choice to industries and compa-
nies about which he holds an optimistic view, but we counselstrongly against paying a high price for a stock (in relation to earn-382 The Intelligent Investor
ferent company. A “related” hedge involves buying and selling different
stocks or bonds issued by the same company. The “new group” of hedgefunds described by Graham were widely available around 1968, but laterregulation by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission restricted ac-cess to hedge funds for the general public.ings and assets) because of such enthusiasm. If he followed our
philosophy in this field he would more likely be the buyer of
important cyclical enterprises—such as steel shares perhaps—
when the current situation is unfavorable, the near-term prospectsare poor, and the low price fully reflects the current pessimism.*
Secondary Companies
Next in order for examination and possible selection would come
secondary companies that are making a good showing, have a satis-
factory past record, but appear to hold no charm for the public.
These would be enterprises on the order of eltra and Emhart at
their 1970 closing prices. (See Chapter 13 above.) There are variousways of going about locating such companies. We should like to trya novel approach here and give a reasonably detailed exposition ofone such exercise in stock selection. Ours is a double purpose. Manyof our readers may find a substantial practical value in the methodwe shall follow, or it may suggest comparable methods to try out.Beyond that what we shall do may help them to come to grips with
the real world of common stocks, and introduce them to one of the
most fascinating and valuable little volumes in existence. It is Stan-dard & Poor’s Stock Guide, published monthly, and made available
to the general public under annual subscription. In addition manybrokerage firms distribute the Guide to their clients (on request.)
The great bulk of the Guide is given over to about 230 pages of
condensed statistical information on the stocks of more than 4,500companies. These include all the issues listed on the variousexchanges, say 3,000, plus some 1,500 unlisted issues. Most of the
items needed for a first and even a second look at a given company
appear in this compendium. (From our viewpoint the importantmissing datum is the net-asset-value, or book value, per share,
which can be found in the larger Standard & Poor’s volumes and
elsewhere.)Stock Selection for the Enterprising Investor 383
* In 2003, an intelligent investor following Graham’s train of thought would
be searching for opportunities in the technology, telecommunications, andelectric-utility industries. History has shown that yesterday’s losers are oftentomorrow’s winners.The investor who likes to play around with corporate figures
will find himself in clover with the Stock Guide. He can open to any
page and see before his eyes a condensed panorama of the splen-
dors and miseries of the stock market, with all-time high and lowprices going as far back as 1936, when available. He will find com-panies that have multiplied their price 2,000 times from the minus-cule low to the majestic high. (For prestigious IBM the growth was“only” 333 times in that period.) He will find (not so exceptionally)
a company whose shares advanced from 
3⁄8to 68, and then fell back
to 3.2In the dividend record column he will find one that goes back
to 1791—paid by Industrial National Bank of Rhode Island (whichrecently saw fit to change its ancient corporate name).* If he looks
at the Guide for the year-end 1969 he will read that Penn Central
Co. (as successor to Pennsylvania Railroad) has been paying divi-
dends steadily since 1848; alas!, it was doomed to bankruptcy afew months later. He will find a company selling at only 2 times itslast reported earnings, and another selling at 99 times such earn-ings.
3In most cases he will find it difficult to tell the line of business
from the corporate name; for one U.S. Steel there will be threecalled such things as ITI Corp. (bakery stuff) or Santa Fe Industries
(mainly the large railroad). He can feast on an extraordinary vari-ety of price histories, dividend and earnings histories, financial
positions, capitalization setups, and what not. Backward-leaning
conservatism, run-of-the-mine featureless companies, the mostpeculiar combinations of “principal business,” all kinds of Wall
Street gadgets and widgets—they are all there, waiting to be
browsed over, or studied with a serious objective.
The Guides give in separate columns the current dividend yields
and price/earnings ratios, based on latest 12-month figures, wher-
ever applicable. It is this last item that puts us on the track of ourexercise in common-stock selection.384 The Intelligent Investor
* The successor corporation to Industrial National Bank of Rhode Island is
FleetBoston Financial Corp. One of its corporate ancestors, the ProvidenceBank, was founded in 1791.A Winnowing of the Stock Guide
Suppose we look for a simple prima facie indication that a stock
is cheap. The first such clue that comes to mind is a low price in
relation to recent earnings. Let’s make a preliminary list of stocksthat sold at a multiple of nine or less at the end of 1970. That datumis conveniently provided in the last column of the even-numbered
pages. For an illustrative sample we shall take the first 20 such low-multiplier stocks; they begin with the sixth issue listed, Aberdeen
Mfg. Co., which closed the year at 10
1⁄4, or 9 times its reported earn-
ings of $1.25 per share for the 12 months ended September 1970.The twentieth such issue is American Maize Products, whichclosed at 9
1⁄2, also with a multiplier of 9.
The group may have seemed mediocre, with 10 issues selling
below $10 per share. (This fact is not truly important; it would
probably—not necessarily—warn defensive investors against sucha list, but the inference for enterprising investors might be favor-able on balance.)* Before making a further scrutiny let us calculatesome numbers. Our list represents about one in ten of the first 200
issues looked at. On that basis the Guide should yield, say, 450
issues selling at multipliers under 10. This would make a goodly
number of candidates for further selectivity.
So let us apply to our list some additional criteria, rather similar
to those we suggested for the defensive investor, but not so severe.We suggest the following:
1. Financial condition: (a)Current assets at least 1
1⁄2times current
liabilities, and (b)debt not more than 110% of net current assets
(for industrial companies).Stock Selection for the Enterprising Investor 385
* For today’s investor, the cutoff is more likely to be around $1 per share—the
level below which many stocks are “delisted, ” or declared ineligible for trad-
ing on major exchanges. Just monitoring the stock prices of these companies
can take a considerable amount of effort, making them impractical for defen-sive investors. The costs of trading low-priced stocks can be very high.Finally, companies with very low stock prices have a distressing tendency togo out of business. However, a diversified portfolio of dozens of these dis-tressed companies may still appeal to some enterprising investors today.2. Earnings stability: No deficit in the last five years covered in
theStock Guide.
3. Dividend record: Some current dividend.
4. Earnings growth: Last year’s earnings more than those of 1966.5. Price: Less than 120% net tangible assets.
The earnings figures in the Guide were generally for those end-
ing September 30, 1970, and thus do not include what may be a badquarter at the end of that year. But an intelligent investor can’t askfor the moon—at least not to start with. Note also that we set nolower limit on the size of the enterprise. Small companies may
afford enough safety if bought carefully and on a group basis.
When we have applied the five additional criteria our list of 20
candidates is reduced to only five. Let us continue our search untilthe first 450 issues in the Guide have yielded us a little “portfolio”
of 15 stocks meeting our six requirements. (They are set forth in
Table 15–1, together with some relevant data.) The group, of
course, is presented for illustration only, and would not necessarilyhave been chosen by our inquiring investor.
The fact is that the user of our method would have had a much
wider choice. If our winnowing approach had been applied to all
4,500 companies in the Stock Guide, and if the ratio for the first
tenth had held good throughout, we would end up with about 150
companies meeting all six of our criteria of selection. The enterpris-
ing investor would then be able to follow his judgment—or hispartialities and prejudices—in making a third selection of, say, one
out of five in this ample list.
The Stock Guide material includes “Earnings and Dividend
Rankings,” which are based on stability and growth of these fac-tors for the past eight years. (Thus price attractiveness does not
enter here.) We include the S & P rankings in our Table 15-1. Ten of
the 15 issues are ranked B+ (= average) and one (American Maize)
is given the “high” rating of A. If our enterprising investor wanted
to add a seventh mechanical criterion to his choice, by consideringonly issues ranked by Standard & Poor’s as average or better inquality, he might still have about 100 such issues to choose from.One might say that a group of issues, of at least average quality,meeting criteria of financial condition as well, purchasable at a lowmultiplier of current earnings and below asset value, should offergood promise of satisfactory investment results.386 The Intelligent InvestorSingle Criteria for Choosing Common Stocks
An inquiring reader might well ask whether the choice of a bet-
ter than average portfolio could be made a simpler affair than we
have just outlined. Could a single plausible criterion be used togood advantage—such as a low price/earnings ratio, or a high div-idend return, or a large asset value? The two methods of this sortthat we have found to give quite consistently good results in thelonger past have been (a) the purchase of low-multiplier stocks ofimportant companies (such as the DJIA list), and (b) the choice of adiversified group of stocks selling under their net-current-assetStock Selection for the Enterprising Investor 387
TABLE 15-1 A Sample Portfolio of Low-Multiplier Industrial
Stocks
(The First Fifteen Issues in the Stock Guide at December 31, 1971, Meeting
Six Requirements)
Price
Dec.
1970Earned
Per Share
Last
12 MonthsBook
ValueS & P
RankingPrice
Feb.
1972
Aberdeen Mfg. 101⁄4 $1.25 $9.33 B 133⁄4
Alba-Waldensian 63⁄8 .68 9.06 B+ 63⁄8
Albert’s Inc. 81⁄2 1.00 8.48 n.r.a14
Allied Mills 241⁄2 2.68 24.38 B+ 181⁄4
Am. Maize Prod. 91⁄4 1.03 10.68 A 161⁄2
Am. Rubber & Plastics 133⁄4 1.58 15.06 B 15
Am. Smelt. & Ref. 271⁄2 3.69 25.30 B+ 231⁄4
Anaconda 211⁄2 4.19 54.28 B+ 19
Anderson Clayton 373⁄4 4.52 65.74 B+ 521⁄2
Archer-Daniels-Mid. 321⁄2 3.51 31.35 B+ 321⁄2
Bagdad Copper 22 2.69 18.54 n.r.a32
D. H. Baldwin 28 3.21 28.60 B+ 50
Big Bear Stores 181⁄2 2.71 20.57 B+ 391⁄2
Binks Mfg. 151⁄4 1.83 14.41 B+ 211⁄2
Bluefield Supply 221⁄4 2.59 28.66 n.r.a391⁄2b
an.r. = not ranked.
bAdjusted for stock split.value (or working-capital value). We have already pointed out that
the low-multiplier criterion applied to the DJIA at the end of 1968
worked out badly when the results are measured to mid-1971. The
record of common-stock purchases made at a price below theirworking-capital value has no such bad mark against it; the draw-back here has been the drying up of such opportunities duringmost of the past decade.
What about other bases of choice? In writing this book we have
made a series of “experiments,” each based on a single, fairly obvi-ous criterion. The data used would be readily found in the Stan-dard & Poor’s Stock Guide. In all cases a 30-stock portfolio was
assumed to have been acquired at the 1968 closing prices and thenrevalued at June 30, 1971. The separate criteria applied were thefollowing, as applied to otherwise random choices: (1) A low multi-plier of recent earnings (not confined to DJIA issues). (2) A highdividend return. (3) A very long dividend record. (4) A very largeenterprise, as measured by number of outstanding shares. (5) A
strong financial position. (6) A low price in dollars per share. (7) A
low price in relation to the previous high price. (8) A high quality-ranking by Standard & Poor’s.
It will be noted that the Stock Guide has at least one column relat-
ing to each of the above criteria. This indicates the publisher’sbelief that each is of importance in analyzing and choosing com-
mon stocks. (As we pointed out above, we should like to see
another figure added: the net-asset-value per share.)
The most important fact that emerges from our various tests
relates to the performance of stocks bought at random. We have
tested this performance for three 30-stock portfolios, each made up
of issues found on the first line of the December 31, 1968, Stock
Guide and also found in the issue for August 31, 1971. Between
these two dates the S & P composite was practically unchanged,and the DJIA lost about 5%. But our 90 randomly chosen issues
declined an average of 22%, not counting 19 issues that were
dropped from the Guide and probably showed larger losses. These
comparative results undoubtedly reflect the tendency of smallerissues of inferior quality to be relatively overvalued in bull mar-kets, and not only to suffer more serious declines than the strongerissues in the ensuing price collapse, but also to delay their fullrecovery—in many cases indefinitely. The moral for the intelligent388 The Intelligent Investorinvestor is, of course, to avoid second-quality issues in making up
a portfolio, unless—for the enterprising investor—they are demon-
strable bargains.
Other results gleaned from our portfolio studies may be sum-
marized as follows:
Only three of the groups studied showed up better than the 
S & P composite (and hence better than the DJIA), viz: (1) Industri-
als with the highest quality ranking (A+). These advanced 91⁄2% in
the period against a decline of 2.4% for the S & P industrials, and5.6% for the DJIA. (However, the ten public-utility issues rated A+declined 18% against a decline of 14% for the 55-stock S & P public-utility index.) It is worth remarking that the S & P rankings showedup very well in this single test. In every case a portfolio based on ahigher ranking did better than a lower-ranking portfolio. (2) Com-panies with more than 50 million shares outstanding showed no
change on the whole, as against a small decline for the indexes. (3)
Strangely enough, stocks selling at a high price per share (over 100)showed a slight (1%) composite advance.
Among our various tests we made one based on book value, a
figure not given in the Stock Guide. Here we found—contrary to our
investment philosophy—that companies that combined major size
with a large good-will component in their market price did verywell as a whole in the 2
1⁄2-year holding period. (By “good-will com-
ponent” we mean the part of the price that exceeds the book
value.)* Our list of “good-will giants” was made up of 30 issues,each of which had a good-will component of over a billion dollars,representing more than half of its market price. The total marketvalue of these good-will items at the end of 1968 was more than
$120 billions! Despite these optimistic market valuations the group
as a whole showed a price advance per share of 15% betweenDecember 1968 and August 1971, and acquitted itself best among
the 20-odd lists studied.
A fact like this must not be ignored in a work on investmentStock Selection for the Enterprising Investor 389
* In Graham’s terms, a large amount of goodwill can result from two causes:
a corporation can acquire other companies for substantially more than thevalue of their assets, or its own stock can trade for substantially more thanits book value.policies. It is clear that, at the least, a considerable momentum is
attached to those companies that combine the virtues of great size,
an excellent past record of earnings, the public’s expectation of
continued earnings growth in the future, and strong market actionover many past years. Even if the price may appear excessive byour quantitative standards the underlying market momentum maywell carry such issues along more or less indefinitely. (Naturallythis assumption does not apply to every individual issue in the cat-
egory. For example, the indisputable good-will leader, IBM, moved
down from 315 to 304 in the 30-month period.) It is difficult tojudge to what extent the superior market action shown is due to
“true” or objective investment merits and to what extent to long-
established popularity. No doubt both factors are important here.Clearly, both the long-term and the recent market action of thegood-will giants would recommend them for a diversified portfo-lio of common stocks. Our own preference, however, remains forother types that show a combination of favorable investment fac-
tors, including asset values of at least two-thirds the market price.
The tests using other criteria indicate in general that random
lists based on a single favorable factor did better than random lists
chosen for the opposite factor—e.g., low-multiplier issues had asmaller decline in this period than high-multiplier issues, andlong-term dividend payers lost less than those that were not pay-
ing dividends at the end of 1968. To that extent the results support
our recommendation that the issues selected meet a combination ofquantitative or tangible criteria.
Finally we should comment on the much poorer showing made
by our lists as a whole as compared with the price record of the S & P composite. The latter is weighted by the size of each enter-
prise, whereas our tests are based on taking one share of each com-
pany. Evidently the larger emphasis given to giant enterprises bythe S & P method made a significant difference in the results, and
points up once again their greater price stability as compared with
“run-of-the-mine” companies.
Bargain Issues, or Net-Current-Asset Stocks
In the tests discussed above we did not include the results of buy-
ing 30 issues at a price less than their net-current-asset value. The rea-son was that only a handful, at most, of such issues would have been390 The Intelligent Investorfound in the Stock Guide at the end of 1968. But the picture changed in
the 1970 decline, and at the low prices of that year a goodly number
of common stocks could have been bought at below their working-
capital value. It always seemed, and still seems, ridiculously simpleto say that if one can acquire a diversified group of common stocks ata price less than the applicable net current assets alone—after deduct-ing all prior claims, and counting as zerothe fixed and other assets—
the results should be quite satisfactory. They were so, in our
experience, for more than 30 years—say, between 1923 and 1957—
excluding a time of real trial in 1930–1932.
Has this approach any relevance at the beginning of 1971? Our
answer would be a qualified “yes.” A quick runover of the Stock
Guide would have uncovered some 50 or more issues that appeared
to be obtainable at or below net-current-asset value. As might beexpected a good many of these had been doing badly in the diffi-cult year 1970. If we eliminated those which had reported netlosses in the last 12-month period we would be still left with
enough issues to make up a diversified list.
We have included in Table 15-2 some data on five issues that
sold at less than their working-capital value* at their lowprices ofStock Selection for the Enterprising Investor 391
TABLE 15-2 Stocks of Prominent Companies Selling at or Below
Net-Current-Asset Value in 1970
Cone Mills 13 $18 $39.3 $1.51 $1.00 411⁄2
Jantzen Inc. 111⁄8 12 16.3 1.27 .60 37
National Presto 211⁄2 27 31.7 6.15 1.00 45
Parker Pen 91⁄4 91⁄2 16.6 1.62 .60 311⁄4
West Point 
Pepperell 161⁄4 201⁄2 39.4 1.82 1.50 64Company1970
PriceNet-Current-
Asset Value
Per ShareBook
Value
Per ShareEarned
Per Share,
1970Current
DividendHigh Price
Before
1970
* Technically, the working-capital value of a stock is the current assets per
share, minus the current liabilities per share, divided by the number ofshares outstanding. Here, however, Graham means “ networking-capital
value, ” or the per-share value of current assets minus total liabilities.1970. These give some food for reflection on the nature of stock-
price fluctuations. How does it come about that well-established
companies, whose brands are household names all over the coun-
try, could be valued at such low figures—at the same time whenother concerns (with better earnings growth of course) were sellingfor billions of dollars in excess of what their balance sheetsshowed? To quote the “old days” once more, the idea of good willas an element of intangible value was usually associated with a
“trade name.” Names such as Lady Pepperell in sheets, Jantzen in
swim suits, and Parker in pens would be considered assets of greatvalue indeed. But now, if the “market doesn’t like a company,” not
only renowned trade names but land, buildings, machinery, and
what you will, can all count for nothing in its scales. Pascal saidthat “the heart has its reasons that the reason doesn’t under-stand.”* For “heart” read “Wall Street.”
There is another contrast that comes to mind. When the going is
good and new issues are readily salable, stock offerings of no qual-
ity at all make their appearance. They quickly find buyers; their
prices are often bid up enthusiastically right after issuance to levelsin relation to assets and earnings that would put IBM, Xerox, and
Polaroid to shame. Wall Street takes this madness in its stride, with
no overt efforts by anyone to call a halt before the inevitable col-lapse in prices. (The SEC can’t do much more than insist on disclo-
sure of information, about which the speculative public couldn’t
care less, or announce investigations and usually mild punitiveactions of various sorts after the letter of the law has been clearly
broken.) When many of these minuscule but grossly inflated enter-prises disappear from view, or nearly so, it is all taken philosophi-
cally enough as “part of the game.” Everybody swears off such
inexcusable extravagances—until next time.
Thanks for the lecture, says the gentle reader. But what about
your “bargain issues”? Can one really make money in them with-out taking a serious risk? Yes indeed, ifyou can find enough of
them to make a diversified group, and ifyou don’t lose patience if392 The Intelligent Investor
*Le coeur a ses raisons que la raison ne connaît point. This poetic pas-
sage is one of the concluding arguments in the great French theologian’s
discussion of what has come to be known as “Pascal’s wager” (see com-mentary on Chapter 20).they fail to advance soon after you buy them. Sometimes the
patience needed may appear quite considerable. In our previous
edition we hazarded a single example (p. 188) which was current
as we wrote. It was Burton-Dixie Corp., with stock selling at 20,against net-current-asset value of 30, and book value of about 50. Aprofit on that purchase would not have been immediate. But inAugust 1967 all the shareholders were offered 53
3⁄4for their shares,
probably at just about book value. A patient holder, who had
bought the shares in March 1964 at 20 would have had a profit of
165% in 31⁄2years—a noncompounded annual return of 47%. Most
of the bargain issues in our experience have not taken that long to
show good profits–nor have they shown so high a rate. For a some-
what similar situation, current as we write, see our discussion ofNational Presto Industries above, p. 168.
Special Situations or “Workouts”
Let us touch briefly on this area, since it is theoretically includ-
able in the program of operations of an enterprising investor. It
was commented upon above. Here we shall supply some examples
of the genre, and some further remarks on what it appears to offeran open-minded and alert investor.
Three such situations, among others, were current early in 1971,
and they may be summarized as follows:
Situation 1. Acquisition of Kayser-Roth by Borden’s. In January
1971 Borden Inc. announced a plan to acquire control of Kayser-Roth (“diversified apparel”) by giving 1
1⁄3shares of its own stock in
exchange for one share of Kayser-Roth. On the following day, inactive trading. Borden closed at 26 and Kayser-Roth at 28. If an
“operator” had bought 300 shares of Kayser-Roth and sold 400 Bor-
den at these prices and if the deal were later consummated on theannounced terms, he would have had a profit of some 24% on the
cost of his shares, less commissions and some other items. Assum-
ing the deal had gone through in six months, his final profit might
have been at about a 40% per annum rate.
Situation 2. In November 1970 National Biscuit Co. offered to
buy control of Aurora Plastics Co. at $11 in cash. The stock was sell-
ing at about 8
1⁄2; it closed the month at 9 and continued to sell there at
year-end. Here the gross profit indicated was originally about 25%,subject to the risks of nonconsummation and to the time element.Stock Selection for the Enterprising Investor 393Situation 3. Universal-Marion Co., which had ceased its business
operations, asked its shareholders to ratify dissolution of the concern.
The treasurer indicated that the common stock had a book value of
about $281⁄2per share, a substantial part of which was in liquid form.
The stock closed 1970 at 211⁄2, indicating a possible gross profit here, if
book value was realized in liquidation, of more than 30%.
If operations of this kind, conducted on a diversified basis for
spreading the risk, could be counted to yield annual profits of, say,20% or better, they would undoubtedly be more than merelyworthwhile. Since this is not a book on “special situations,” we arenot going into the details of the business—for it really is a business.Let us point out two contradictory developments there in recentyears. On the one hand the number of deals to choose from hasincreased enormously, as compared with, say, ten years ago. This is
a consequence of what might be called a mania of corporations to
diversify their activities through various types of acquisitions, etc.In 1970 the number of “merger announcements” aggregated some
5,000, down from over 6,000 in 1969. The total money values
involved in these deals amounted to many, many billions. Perhapsonly a small fraction of the 5,000 announcements could have pre-sented a clear-cut opportunity for purchase of shares by a special-situations man, but this fraction was still large enough to keep himbusy studying, picking, and choosing.
The other side of the picture is that an increasing proportion of
the mergers announced failed to be consummated. In such cases, ofcourse, the aimed-for profit is not realized, and is likely to be
replaced by a more or less serious loss. Reasons for nonsuccess are
numerous, including antitrust intervention, shareholder opposi-tion, change in “market conditions,” unfavorable indications from
further study, inability to agree on details, and others. The trick
here, of course, is to have the judgment, buttressed by experience,to pick the deals most likely to succeed and also those which are
likely to occasion the smallest loss if they fail.*394 The Intelligent Investor
* As discussed in the commentary on Chapter 7 , merger arbitrage is wholly
inappropriate for most individual investors.Further Comment on the Examples Above
Kayser-Roth. The directors of this company had already
rejected (in January 1971) the Borden proposal when this chapter
was written. If the operation had been “undone” immediately theoverall loss, including commissions, would have been about 12%
of the cost of the Kayser-Roth shares.
Aurora Plastics. Because of the bad showing of this company
in 1970 the takeover terms were renegotiated and the price reduced
to 10
1⁄2. The shares were paid for at the end of May. The annual rate
of return realized here was about 25%.
Universal-Marion. This company promptly made an initial
distribution in cash and stock worth about $7 per share, reducingthe investment to say 14
1⁄2. However the market price fell as low as
13 subsequently, casting doubt on the ultimate outcome of the liq-
uidation.
Assuming that the three examples given are fairly representa-
tive of “workout or arbitrage” opportunities as a whole in 1971, it
is clear that they are not attractive if entered into upon a randombasis. This has become more than ever a field for professionals,with the requisite experience and judgment.
There is an interesting sidelight on our Kayser-Roth example.
Late in 1971 the price fell below 20 while Borden was selling at 25,equivalent to 33 for Kayser-Roth under the terms of the exchangeoffer. It would appear that either the directors had made a greatmistake in turning down that opportunity or the shares of Kayser-Roth were now badly undervalued in the market. Something for asecurity analyst to look into.Stock Selection for the Enterprising Investor 395COMMENTARY ON C HAPTER 15
It is easy in the world to live after the world’s opinion; it is easy
in solitude to live after our own; but the great man is he who in
the midst of the crowd keeps with perfect sweetness the inde-pendence of solitude.
—Ralph Waldo Emerson
PRACTICE, PRACTICE, PRACTICE
Max Heine, founder of the Mutual Series Funds, liked to say that
“there are many roads to Jerusalem. ” What this masterly stock pickermeant was that his own value-centered method of selecting stockswas not the only way to be a successful investor. In this chapter we’lllook at several techniques that some of today’s leading money man-
agers use for picking stocks.
First, though, it’s worth repeating that for most investors, selecting
individual stocks is unnecessary—if not inadvisable. The fact that mostprofessionals do a poor job of stock picking does not mean that most
amateurs can do better. The vast majority of people who try to pickstocks learn that they are not as good at it as they thought; the lucki-
est ones discover this early on, while the less fortunate take years to
learn it. A small percentage of investors can excel at picking their ownstocks. Everyone else would be better off getting help, ideally through
an index fund.
Graham advised investors to practice first, just as even the greatest
athletes and musicians practice and rehearse before every actual per-formance. He suggested starting off by spending a year tracking andpicking stocks (but notwith real money).
1In Graham’s day, you would
3961Patricia Dreyfus, “Investment Analysis in Two Easy Lessons” (interview
with Graham), Money, July, 1976, p. 36.have practiced using a ledger of hypothetical buys and sells on a 
legal pad; nowadays, you can use “portfolio trackers” at websites likewww.morningstar.com, http://finance.yahoo.com, http://money.cnn.com/services/portfolio/ or www.marketocracy.com (at the last site,ignore the “market-beating” hype on its funds and other services).
By test-driving your techniques before trying them with real money,
you can make mistakes without incurring any actual losses, developthe discipline to avoid frequent trading, compare your approach
against those of leading money managers, and learn what works foryou. Best of all, tracking the outcome of all your stock picks will pre-
vent you from forgetting that some of your hunches turn out to bestinkers. That will force you to learn from your winners andyour losers.
After a year, measure your results against how you would have done if
you had put all your money in an S & P 500 index fund. If you didn’tenjoy the experiment or your picks were poor, no harm done—selectingindividual stocks is not for you. Get yourself an index fund and stop
wasting your time on stock picking.
If you enjoyed the experiment and earned sufficiently good returns,
gradually assemble a basket of stocks—but limit it to a maximum of10% of your overall portfolio (keep the rest in an index fund). And
remember, you can always stop if it no longer interests you or yourreturns turn bad.
LOOKING UNDER THE RIGHT ROCKS
So how should you go about looking for a potentially rewarding
stock? You can use websites like http://finance.yahoo.com andwww.morningstar.com to screen stocks with the statistical filters sug-
gested in Chapter 14. Or you can take a more patient, craftsmanlike
approach. Unlike most people, many of the best professional investorsfirst get interested in a company when its share price goes down, not
up. Christopher Browne of Tweedy Browne Global Value Fund,
William Nygren of the Oakmark Fund, Robert Rodriguez of FPA Capi-tal Fund, and Robert Torray of the Torray Fund all suggest looking at
the daily list of new 52-week lows in the Wall Street Journal or the
similar table in the “Market Week” section of Barron’s. That will point
you toward stocks and industries that are unfashionable or unloved
and that thus offer the potential for high returns once perceptionschange.
Christopher Davis of the Davis Funds and William Miller of LeggCommentary on Chapter 15 397398 Commentary on Chapter 15
FROM EPS TO ROIC
Net income or earnings per share (EPS) has been distorted in
recent years by factors like stock-option grants and accountinggains and charges. To see how much a company is truly earning
on the capital it deploys in its businesses, look beyond EPS to
ROIC, or return on invested capital. Christopher Davis of theDavis Funds defines it with this formula:
ROIC = Owner Earnings /H11004Invested Capital,
where Owner Earnings is equal to:
Operating profit
plus depreciation
plus amortization of goodwill
minus Federal income tax (paid at the company’s average rate)
minus cost of stock options
minus “maintenance” (or essential) capital expenditures
minus any income generated by unsustainable rates of return on
pension funds (as of 2003, anything greater than 6.5%)
and where Invested Capital is equal to:
Total assets
minus cash (as well as short-term investments and non-interest-
bearing current liabilities)
plus past accounting charges that reduced invested capital.
ROIC has the virtue of showing, after all legitimate expenses,
what the company earns from its operating businesses—and
how efficiently it has used the shareholders’ money to generatethat return. An ROIC of at least 10% is attractive; even 6% or7% can be tempting if the company has good brand names,focused management, or is under a temporary cloud.Mason Value Trust like to see rising returns on invested capital, or
ROIC—a way of measuring how efficiently a company generates whatWarren Buffett has called “owner earnings. ”
2(See the sidebar on 
p. 398 for more detail.)
By checking “comparables, ” or the prices at which similar busi-
nesses have been acquired over the years, managers like Oakmark’s
Nygren and Longleaf Partners’ O. Mason Hawkins get a better handle on what a company’s parts are worth. For an individualinvestor, it’s painstaking and difficult work: Start by looking at the
“Business Segments” footnote in the company’s annual report, which
typically lists the industrial sector, revenues, and earnings of each sub-sidiary. (The “Management Discussion and Analysis” may also be
helpful.) Then search a news database like Factiva, ProQuest, or 
LexisNexis for examples of other firms in the same industries that haverecently been acquired. Using the EDGAR database at www.sec.govto locate their past annual reports, you may be able to determine theratio of purchase price to the earnings of those acquired companies.You can then apply that ratio to estimate how much a corporate
acquirer might pay for a similar division of the company you are inves-
tigating.
By separately analyzing each of the company’s divisions this way,
you may be able to see whether they are worth more than the currentstock price. Longleaf’s Hawkins likes to find what he calls “60-centdollars, ” or companies whose stock is trading at 60% or less of the
value at which he appraises the businesses. That helps provide the
margin of safety that Graham insists on.
WHO’S THE BOSS?
Finally, most leading professional investors want to see that a com-
pany is run by people who, in the words of Oakmark’s William Nygren,
“think like owners, not just managers. ” Two simple tests: Are thecompany’s financial statements easily understandable, or are they full
of obfuscation? Are “nonrecurring” or “extraordinary” or “unusual”
charges just that, or do they have a nasty habit of recurring?
Longleaf’s Mason Hawkins looks for corporate managers who areCommentary on Chapter 15 399
2See the commentary on Chapter 11.“good partners”—meaning that they communicate candidly about
problems, have clear plans for allocating current and future cash flow,and own sizable stakes in the company’s stock (preferably throughcash purchases rather than through grants of options). But “if man-agements talk more about the stock price than about the business, ”
warns Robert Torray of the Torray Fund, “we’re not interested. ”Christopher Davis of the Davis Funds favors firms that limit issuance
of stock options to roughly 3% of shares outstanding.
At Vanguard Primecap Fund, Howard Schow tracks “what the com-
pany said one year and what happened the next. We want to see not
only whether managements are honest with shareholders but alsowhether they’re honest with themselves. ” (If a company boss insiststhat all is hunky-dory when business is sputtering, watch out!) Nowa-days, you can listen in on a company’s regularly scheduled conferencecalls even if you own only a few shares; to find out the schedule, callthe investor relations department at corporate headquarters or visit
the company’s website.
Robert Rodriguez of FPA Capital Fund turns to the back page of
the company’s annual report, where the heads of its operating divi-sions are listed. If there’s a lot of turnover in those names in the first
one or two years of a new CEO’s regime, that’s probably a good sign;he’s cleaning out the dead wood. But if high turnover continues, the
turnaround has probably devolved into turmoil.
KEEPING YOUR EYES ON THE ROAD
There are even more roads to Jerusalem than these. Some leading
portfolio managers, like David Dreman of Dreman Value Management
and Martin Whitman of the Third Avenue Funds, focus on companies
selling at very low multiples of assets, earnings, or cash flow. Others,like Charles Royce of the Royce Funds and Joel Tillinghast of Fidelity
Low-Priced Stock Fund, hunt for undervalued small companies. And,
for an all-too-brief look at how today’s most revered investor, WarrenBuffett, selects companies, see the sidebar on p. 401.
One technique that can be helpful: See which leading professional
money managers own the same stocks you do. If one or two nameskeep turning up, go to the websites of those fund companies anddownload their most recent reports. By seeing which other stocksthese investors own, you can learn more about what qualities they400 Commentary on Chapter 15Commentary on Chapter 15 401
WARREN’S WAY
Graham’s greatest student, Warren Buffett, has become the
world’s most successful investor by putting new twists onGraham’s ideas. Buffett and his partner, Charles Munger, have
combined Graham’s “margin of safety” and detachment from
the market with their own innovative emphasis on future growth.Here is an all-too-brief summary of Buffett’s approach:
He looks for what he calls “franchise” companies with strong
consumer brands, easily understandable businesses, robustfinancial health, and near-monopolies in their markets, like H & R
Block, Gillette, and the Washington Post Co. Buffett likes to
snap up a stock when a scandal, big loss, or other bad newspasses over it like a storm cloud—as when he bought Coca-Cola
soon after its disastrous rollout of “New Coke” and the market
crash of 1987 . He also wants to see managers who set andmeet realistic goals; build their businesses from within rather
than through acquisition; allocate capital wisely; and do not pay
themselves hundred-million-dollar jackpots of stock options.Buffett insists on steady and sustainable growth in earnings, sothe company will be worth more in the future than it is today.
In his annual reports, archived at www.berkshirehathaway.
com, Buffett has set out his thinking like an open book. Probably
no other investor, Graham included, has publicly revealed more
about his approach or written such compellingly readableessays. (One classic Buffett proverb: “When a management
with a reputation for brilliance tackles a business with a reputa-
tion for bad economics, it is the reputation of the business thatremains intact. ”) Every intelligent investor can—and should—learn
by reading this master’s own words.have in common; by reading the managers’ commentary, you may get
ideas on how to improve your own approach.3
No matter which techniques they use in picking stocks, successful
investing professionals have two things in common: First, they are dis-
ciplined and consistent, refusing to change their approach even whenit is unfashionable. Second, they think a great deal about what they do
and how to do it, but they pay very little attention to what the market isdoing.402 Commentary on Chapter 15
3There are also many newsletters dedicated to analyzing professional port-
folios, but most of them are a waste of time and money for even the most
enterprising investor. A shining exception for people who can spare thecash is Outstanding Investor Digest (www.oid.com).CHAPTER 16
Convertible Issues and Warrants
Convertible bonds and preferred stocks have been taking on a
predominant importance in recent years in the field of senior
financing. As a parallel development, stock-option warrants—which are long-term rights to buy common shares at stipulatedprices—have become more and more numerous. More than half
the preferred issues now quoted in the Standard & Poor’s Stock
Guide have conversion privileges, and this has been true also of a
major part of the corporate bond financing in 1968–1970. There are
at least 60 different series of stock-option warrants dealt in on the
American Stock Exchange. In 1970, for the first time in its history,the New York Stock Exchange listed an issue of long-term war-
rants, giving rights to buy 31,400,000 American Tel. & Tel. shares at
$52 each. With “Mother Bell” now leading that procession, it isbound to be augmented by many new fabricators of warrants. (As
we shall point out later, they are a fabrication in more than one
sense.)*
In the overall picture the convertible issues rank as much more
important than the warrants, and we shall discuss them first. Thereare two main aspects to be considered from the standpoint of theinvestor. First, how do they rank as investment opportunities and
risks? Second, how does their existence affect the value of the
related common-stock issues?
Convertible issues are claimed to be especially advantageous to
both the investor and the issuing corporation. The investor receivesthe superior protection of a bond or preferred stock, plus theopportunity to participate in any substantial rise in the value of the
403* Graham detested warrants, as he makes clear on pp. 413–416.common stock. The issuer is able to raise capital at a moderate
interest or preferred dividend cost, and if the expected prosperity
materializes the issuer will get rid of the senior obligation by hav-
ing it exchanged into common stock. Thus both sides to the bargainwill fare unusually well.
Obviously the foregoing paragraph must overstate the case
somewhere, for you cannot by a mere ingenious device make a bar-gain much better for both sides. In exchange for the conversion
privilege the investor usually gives up something important in
quality or yield, or both.
1Conversely, if the company gets its
money at lower cost because of the conversion feature, it is surren-
dering in return part of the common shareholders’ claim to future
enhancement. On this subject there are a number of tricky argu-ments to be advanced both pro and con. The safest conclusion thatcan be reached is that convertible issues are like any other form of
security, in that their form itself guarantees neither attractivenessnor unattractiveness. That question will depend on all the factssurrounding the individual issue.*
We do know, however, that the group of convertible issues
floated during the latter part of a bull market are bound to yield
unsatisfactory results as a whole. (It is at such optimistic periods,
unfortunately, that most of the convertible financing has been donein the past.) The poor consequences must be inevitable, from the
timing itself, since a wide decline in the stock market must invari-
ably make the conversion privilege much less attractive—andoften, also, call into question the underlying safety of the issue
itself.† As a group illustration we shall retain the example used in404 The Intelligent Investor
* Graham is pointing out that, despite the promotional rhetoric that investors
usually hear, convertible bonds do not automatically offer “the best of both
worlds. ” Higher yield and lower risk do notalways go hand in hand. What
Wall Street gives with one hand, it usually takes away with the other. An
investment may offer the best of one world, or the worst of another; but the
best of both worlds seldom becomes available in a single package.
† According to Goldman Sachs and Ibbotson Associates, from 1998through 2002, convertibles generated an average annual return of 4.8%.That was considerably better than the 0.6% annual loss on U.S. stocks, butsubstantially worse than the returns of medium-term corporate bonds (aour first edition of the relative price behavior of convertible and
straight (nonconvertible) preferreds offered in 1946, the closing
year of the bull market preceding the extraordinary one that began
in 1949.
A comparable presentation is difficult to make for the years
1967–1970, because there were virtually no new offerings of non-
convertibles in those years. But it is easy to demonstrate that the
average price decline of convertible preferred stocks from Decem-
ber 1967 to December 1970 was greater than that for common
stocks as a whole (which lost only 5%). Also the convertibles seemto have done quite a bit worse than the older straight preferred
shares during the period December 1968 to December 1970, as is
shown by the sample of 20 issues of each kind in Table 16-2. TheseConvertible Issues and Warrants 405
7 .5% annual gain) and long-term corporate bonds (an 8.3% annual gain). In
the mid-1990s, according to Merrill Lynch, roughly $15 billion in convert-ibles were issued annually; by 1999, issuance had more than doubled to
$39 billion. In 2000, $58 billion in convertibles were issued, and in 2001,
another $105 billion emerged. As Graham warns, convertible securitiesalways come out of the woodwork near the end of a bull market—largelybecause even poor-quality companies then have stock returns high enoughto make the conversion feature seem attractive.TABLE 16-1 Price Record of New Preferred-Stock Issues
Offered in 1946
No decline 7 0Declined 0–10% 16 2
10–20% 11 620–40% 3 22
40% or more 0 12
37 42
Average decline About 9% About 30%Price Change from Issue Price to Low up to July 1947“Straight”
IssuesConvertible and
Participating
Issues
(number of issues)comparisons would demonstrate that convertible securities as a
whole have relatively poor quality as senior issues and also are tied
to common stocks that do worse than the general market except
during a speculative upsurge. These observations do not apply toall convertible issues, of course. In the 1968 and 1969 particularly, a
fair number of strong companies used convertible issues to combat
the inordinately high interest rates for even first-quality bonds. Butit is noteworthy that in our 20-stock sample of convertible pre-
ferreds only one showed an advance and 14 suffered bad declines.*406 The Intelligent Investor
TABLE 16-2 Price Record of Preferred Stocks, Common Stocks,
and Warrants, December 1970 versus December 1968
(Based on Random Samples of 20 Issues Each)
Straight Preferred Stocks
Rated A
or BetterRated
Below AConvertible
Preferred
StocksListed
WarrantsListed
Common
Stocks
Advances 2 0 1 2 1
Declines:
0–10% 3 3 3 4 0
10–20% 14 10 2 1 0
20–40% 1 5 5 6 140% or more 0 0 9 7 18
Average declines 10% 17% 29% 33% 65%
(Standard & Poor’s composite index of 500 common stocks declined 11.3%.)
* Recent structural changes in the convertible market have negated some ofthese criticisms. Convertible preferred stock, which made up roughly half
the total convertible market in Graham’s day, now accounts for only an
eighth of the market. Maturities are shorter, making convertible bonds lessvolatile, and many now carry “call protection, ” or assurances against earlyredemption. And more than half of all convertibles are now investmentgrade, a significant improvement in credit quality from Graham’s time. Thus,in 2002, the Merrill Lynch All U.S. Convertible Index lost 8.6%—versus the22.1% loss of the S & P 500-stock index and the 31.3% decline in theNASDAQ Composite stock index.The conclusion to be drawn from these figures is not that con-
vertible issues are in themselves less desirable than nonconvertible
or “straight” securities. Other things being equal, the opposite is
true. But we clearly see that other things are notequal in practice
and that the addition of the conversion privilege often—perhapsgenerally—betrays an absence of genuine investment quality forthe issue.
It is true, of course, that a convertible preferred is safer than the
common stock of the same company—that is to say, it carriessmaller risk of eventual loss of principal. Consequently those whobuy new convertibles instead of the corresponding common stock
are logical to that extent. But in most cases the common would not
have been an intelligent purchase to begin with, at the ruling price,and the substitution of the convertible preferred did not improvethe picture sufficiently. Furthermore, a good deal of the buying ofconvertibles was done by investors who had no special interest orconfidence in the common stock—that is, they would never have
thought of buying the common at the time—but who were
tempted by what seemed an ideal combination of a prior claimplus a conversion privilege close to the current market. In a num-
ber of instances this combination has worked out well, but the sta-
tistics seem to show that it is more likely to prove a pitfall.
In connection with the ownership of convertibles there is a spe-
cial problem which most investors fail to realize. Even when aprofit appears it brings a dilemma with it. Should the holder sell ona small rise; should he hold for a much bigger advance; if the issue
is called—as often happens when the common has gone up consid-erably—should he sell out then or convert into and retain the com-
mon stock?*
Let us talk in concrete terms. You buy a 6% bond at 100, convert-
ible into stock at 25—that is, at the rate of 40 shares for each $1,000bond. The stock goes to 30, which makes the bond worth at least
120, and so it sells at 125. You either sell or hold. If you hold, hop-
ing for a higher price, you are pretty much in the position of a com-Convertible Issues and Warrants 407
* A bond is “called” when the issuing corporation forcibly pays it off ahead
of the stated maturity date, or final due date for interest payments. For abrief summary of how convertible bonds work, see Note 1 in the commen-tary on this chapter (p. 418).mon shareholder, since if the stock goes down your bond will go
down too. A conservative person is likely to say that beyond 125
his position has become too speculative, and therefore he sells and
makes a gratifying 25% profit.
So far, so good. But pursue the matter a bit. In many cases where
the holder sells at 125 the common stock continues to advance, car-rying the convertible with it, and the investor experiences thatpeculiar pain that comes to the man who has sold out much too
soon. The next time, he decides to hold for 150 or 200. The issue
goes up to 140 and he does not sell. Then the market breaks and hisbond slides down to 80. Again he has done the wrong thing.
Aside from the mental anguish involved in making these bad
guesses—and they seem to be almost inevitable—there is a realarithmetical drawback to operations in convertible issues. It maybe assumed that a stern and uniform policy of selling at 25% or30% profit will work out best as applied to many holdings. Thiswould then mark the upper limit of profit and would be realized
only on the issues that worked out well. But, if—as appears to be
true—these issues often lack adequate underlying security andtend to be floated and purchased in the latter stages of a bull mar-
ket, then a goodly proportion of them will fail to rise to 125 but will
not fail to collapse when the market turns downward. Thus thespectacular opportunities in convertibles prove to be illusory in
practice, and the overall experience is marked by fully as many
substantial losses—at least of a temporary kind—as there are gainsof similar magnitude.
Because of the extraordinary length of the 1950–1968 bull market,
convertible issues as a whole gave a good account of themselves forsome 18 years. But this meant only that the great majority of common
stocks enjoyed large advances, in which most convertible issues were
able to share. The soundness of investment in convertible issues canonly be tested by their performance in a declining stock market—and
this has always proved disappointing as a whole.*
In our first edition (1949) we gave an illustration of this special408 The Intelligent Investor
* In recent years, convertibles have tended to outperform the Standard &
Poor’s 500-stock index during declining stock markets, but they have typi-cally underperformed other bonds—which weakens, but does not fullynegate, the criticism Graham makes here.problem of “what to do” with a convertible when it goes up. We
believe it still merits inclusion here. Like several of our references it
is based on our own investment operations. We were members of a
“select group,” mainly of investment funds, who participated in aprivate offering of convertible 4
1⁄2% debentures of Eversharp Co. at
par, convertible into common stock at $40 per share. The stock
advanced rapidly to 651⁄2, and then (after a three-for-two split) to the
equivalent of 88. The latter price made the convertible debenturesworth no less than 220. During this period the two issues were
called at a small premium; hence they were practically all convertedinto common stock, which was retained by a number of the original
investment-fund buyers of the debentures. The price promptlybegan a severe decline, and in March 1948 the stock sold as low as7
3⁄8. This represented a value of only 27 for the debenture issues, or a
loss of 75% of the original price instead of a profit of over 100%.
The real point of this story is that some of the original purchasers
converted their bonds into the stock and held the stock through its
great decline. In so doing they ran counter to an old maxim of WallStreet, which runs: “Never convert a convertible bond.” Why thisadvice? Because once you convert you have lost your strategic com-bination of prior claimant to interest plus a chance for an attractiveprofit. You have probably turned from investor into speculator, andquite often at an unpropitious time (because the stock has alreadyhad a large advance). If “Never convert a convertible” is a goodrule, how came it that these experienced fund managers exchangedtheir Eversharp bonds for stock, to their subsequent embarrassingloss? The answer, no doubt, is that they let themselves be carried
away by enthusiasm for the company’s prospects as well as by the
“favorable market action” of the shares. Wall Street has a few pru-dent principles; the trouble is that they are always forgotten when
they are most needed.* Hence that other famous dictum of the old-
timers: “Do as I say, not as I do.”
Our general attitude toward new convertible issues is thus a
mistrustful one. We mean here, as in other similar observations,Convertible Issues and Warrants 409
* This sentence could serve as the epitaph for the bull market of the 1990s.
Among the “few prudent principles” that investors forgot were such marketclichés as “Trees don’t grow to the sky” and “Bulls make money, bears makemoney, but pigs get slaughtered. ”that the investor should look more than twice before he buys them.
After such hostile scrutiny he may find some exceptional offerings
that are too good to refuse. The ideal combination, of course, is a
strongly secured convertible, exchangeable for a common stockwhich itself is attractive, and at a price only slightly higher than thecurrent market. Every now and then a new offering appears thatmeets these requirements. By the nature of the securities markets,however, you are more likely to find such an opportunity in some
older issue which has developed into a favorable position rather
than in a new flotation. (If a new issue is a really strong one, it isnot likely to have a good conversion privilege.)
The fine balance between what is given and what is withheld in
a standard-type convertible issue is well illustrated by the exten-sive use of this type of security in the financing of American Tele-phone & Telegraph Company. Between 1913 and 1957 the companysold at least nine separate issues of convertible bonds, most ofthem through subscription rights to shareholders. The convertible
bonds had the important advantage to the company of bringing in
a much wider class of buyers than would have been available for astock offering, since the bonds were popular with many financial
institutions which possess huge resources but some of which were
not permitted to buy stocks. The interest return on the bonds hasgenerally been less than half the corresponding dividend yield on
the stock—a factor that was calculated to offset the prior claim of
the bondholders. Since the company maintained its $9 dividendrate for 40 years (from 1919 to the stock split in 1959) the result was
the eventual conversion of virtually all the convertible issues intocommon stock. Thus the buyers of these convertibles have fared
well through the years—but not quite so well as if they had bought
the capital stock in the first place. This example establishes the
soundness of American Telephone & Telegraph, but not the intrin-sic attractiveness of convertible bonds. To prove them sound in
practice we should need to have a number of instances in which
the convertible worked out well even though the common stockproved disappointing. Such instances are not easy to find.*410 The Intelligent Investor
* AT&T Corp. no longer is a significant issuer of convertible bonds. Among
the largest issuers of convertibles today are General Motors, Merrill Lynch,Tyco International, and Roche.Effect of Convertible Issues on the Status of 
the Common Stock
In a large number of cases convertibles have been issued in con-
nection with mergers or new acquisitions. Perhaps the most strik-
ing example of this financial operation was the issuance by the
NVF Corp. of nearly $100,000,000 of its 5% convertible bonds (plus
warrants) in exchange for most of the common stock of Sharon
Steel Co. This extraordinary deal is discussed below pp. 429–433.Typically the transaction results in a pro forma increase in the
reported earnings per share of common stock; the shares advance
in response to their larger earnings, so-called, but also because themanagement has given evidence of its energy, enterprise, and abil-ity to make more money for the shareholders.* But there are twooffsetting factors, one of which is practically ignored and the otherentirely so in optimistic markets. The first is the actual dilution ofthe current and future earnings on the common stock that flowsarithmetically from the new conversion rights. This dilution can bequantified by taking the recent earnings, or assuming some other
figures, and calculating the adjusted earnings per share if all the
convertible shares or bonds were actually converted. In the major-ity of companies the resulting reduction in per-share figures is notsignificant. But there are numerous exceptions to this statement,and there is danger that they will grow at an uncomfortable rate.The fast-expanding “conglomerates” have been the chief practi-
tioners of convertible legerdemain. In Table 16-3 we list seven com-
panies with large amounts of stock issuable on conversions oragainst warrants.†
Indicated Switches from Common into Preferred Stocks
For decades before, say, 1956, common stocks yielded more than
the preferred stocks of the same companies; this was particularlyConvertible Issues and Warrants 411
* For a further discussion of “pro forma” financial results, see the commen-
tary on Chapter 12.† In recent years, convertible bonds have been heavily issued by companiesin the financial, health-care, and technology industries.true if the preferred stock had a conversion privilege close to the
market. The reverse is generally true at present. As a result there
are a considerable number of convertible preferred stocks which
are clearly more attractive than the related common shares. Own-ers of the common have nothing to lose and important advantages
to gain by switching from their junior shares into the senior issue.
Example : A typical example was presented by Studebaker-
Worthington Corp. at the close of 1970. The common sold at 57,while the $5 convertible preferred finished at 87
1⁄2. Each preferred
share is exchangeable for 11⁄2shares of common, then worth 851⁄2.
This would indicate a small money difference against the buyer ofthe preferred. But dividends are being paid on the common at the
annual rate of $1.20 (or $1.80 for the 1
1⁄2shares), against the $5
obtainable on one share of preferred. Thus the original adverse dif-
ference in price would probably be made up in less than a year,
after which the preferred would probably return an appreciablyhigher dividend yield than the common for some time to come. Butmost important, of course, would be the senior position that thecommon shareholder would gain from the switch. At the lowprices412 The Intelligent Investor
TABLE 16-3 Companies with Large Amounts of Convertible Issues
and Warrants at the End of 1969 (Shares in Thousands)
Common
Stock
OutstandingAdditional Common Stock Issuable
Total
Additional
Common
StockAgainst
WarrantsPreferred
Stock BondsOn Conversion of
Avco Corp. 11,470 1,750 10.436 3,085 15,271
Gulf & Western Inc. 14,964 9,671 5,632 6,951 22,260
International Tel. & Tel. 67,393 190 48,115 48,305
Ling-Temco-Vought 4,410a1,180 685 7,564 9,429
National General 4,910 4,530 12,170 16,700Northwest Industries
b7,433 11,467 1,513 12,980
Rapid American 3,591 426 1,503 8,000 9,929
aIncludes “special stock.”
bAt end of 1970.of 1968 and again in 1970 the preferred sold 15 points higher than
11⁄2shares of common. Its conversion privilege guarantees that it
could never sell lower than the common package.2
Stock-Option Warrants
Let us mince no words at the outset. We consider the recent
development of stock-option warrants as a near fraud, an existing
menace, and a potential disaster. They have created huge aggregate
dollar “values” out of thin air. They have no excuse for existenceexcept to the extent that they mislead speculators and investors.
They should be prohibited by law, or at least strictly limited to aminor part of the total capitalization of a company.*
For an analogy in general history and in literature we refer the
reader to the section of Faust (part 2), in which Goethe describes
the invention of paper money. As an ominous precedent on Wall
Street history, we may mention the warrants of American & For-
eign Power Co., which in 1929 had a quoted market value of over a
billion dollars, although they appeared only in a footnote to thecompany’s balance sheet. By 1932 this billion dollars had shrunk to
$8 million, and in 1952 the warrants were wiped out in the
company’s recapitalization—even though it had remained solvent.
Originally, stock-option warrants were attached now and then
to bond issues, and were usually equivalent to a partial conversionprivilege. They were unimportant in amount, and hence did noharm. Their use expanded in the late 1920s, along with many other
financial abuses, but they dropped from sight for long years there-
after. They were bound to turn up again, like the bad pennies theyare, and since 1967 they have become familiar “instruments ofConvertible Issues and Warrants 413
* Warrants were an extremely widespread technique of corporate finance in
the nineteenth century and were fairly common even in Graham’s day. They
have since diminished in importance and popularity—one of the few recent
developments that would give Graham unreserved pleasure. As of year-end2002, there were only seven remaining warrant issues on the New YorkStock Exchange—only the ghostly vestige of a market. Because warrants areno longer commonly used by major companies, today’s investors shouldread the rest of Graham’s chapter only to see how his logic works.finance.” In fact a standard procedure has developed for raising
the capital for new real-estate ventures, affiliates of large banks, by
selling units of an equal number of common shares and warrants
to buy additional common shares at the same price. Example: In
1971 CleveTrust Realty Investors sold 2,500,000 of these combina-tions of common stock (or “shares of beneficial interest”) and war-rants, for $20 per unit.
Let us consider for a moment what is really involved in this
financial setup. Ordinarily, a common-stock issue has the first rightto buy additional common shares when the company’s directorsfind it desirable to raise capital in this manner. This so-called “pre-
emptive right” is one of the elements of value entering into the
ownership of common stock—along with the right to receive divi-dends, to participate in the company’s growth, and to vote fordirectors. When separate warrants are issued for the right to sub-scribe additional capital, that action takes away part of the valueinherent in an ordinary common share and transfers it to a separate
certificate. An analogous thing could be done by issuing separate
certificates for the right to receive dividends (for a limited orunlimited period), or the right to share in the proceeds of sale or
liquidation of the enterprise, or the right to vote the shares. Why
then are these subscription warrants created as part of the originalcapital structure? Simply because people are inexpert in financial
matters. They don’t realize that the common stock is worth less
with warrants outstanding than otherwise. Hence the package ofstock and warrants usually commands a better price in the market
than would the stock alone. Note that in the usual company reportsthe per-share earnings are (or have been) computed without
proper allowance for the effect of outstanding warrants. The result
is, of course, to overstate the true relationship between the earnings
and the market value of the company’s capitalization.*414 The Intelligent Investor
* Today, the last remnant of activity in warrants is in the cesspool of the
NASDAQ “bulletin board, ” or over-the-counter market for tiny companies,where common stock is often bundled with warrants into a “unit” (the con-temporary equivalent of what Graham calls a “package”). If a stockbrokerever offers to sell you “units” in any company, you can be 95% certain thatwarrants are involved, and at least 90% certain that the broker is either athief or an idiot. Legitimate brokers and firms have no business in this area.The simplest and probably the best method of allowing for the
existence of warrants is to add the equivalent of their market value
to the common-share capitalization, thus increasing the “true”
market price per share. Where large amounts of warrants havebeen issued in connection with the sale of senior securities, it iscustomary to make the adjustment by assuming that the proceedsof the stock payment are used to retire the related bonds or pre-ferred shares. This method does not allow adequately for the usual
“premium value” of a warrant above exercisable value. In Table 
16-4 we compare the effect of the two methods of calculation in thecase of National General Corp. for the year 1970.
Does the company itself derive an advantage from the creation
of these warrants, in the sense that they assure it in some way ofreceiving additional capital when it needs some? Not at all. Ordi-narily there is no way in which the company can require the war-rant-holders to exercise their rights, and thus provide new capitalto the company, prior to the expiration date of the warrants. In the
meantime, if the company wants to raise additional common-stock
funds it must offer the shares to its shareholders in the usual way—which means somewhat under the ruling market price. The war-
rants are no help in such an operation; they merely complicate the
situation by frequently requiring a downward revision in theirown subscription price. Once more we assert that large issues of
stock-option warrants serve no purpose, except to fabricate imagi-
nary market values.
The paper money that Goethe was familiar with, when he wrote
his Faust, were the notorious French assignats that had been
greeted as a marvelous invention, and were destined ultimately tolose all of their value—as did the billion dollars worth of American
& Foreign Power warrants.* Some of the poet’s remarks applyConvertible Issues and Warrants 415
* The “notorious French assignats” were issued during the Revolution of
1789. They were originally debts of the Revolutionary government, purport-
edly secured by the value of the real estate that the radicals had seized from
the Catholic church and the nobility. But the Revolutionaries were bad finan-cial managers. In 1790, the interest rate on assignats was cut; soon theystopped paying interest entirely and were reclassified as paper money. Butthe government refused to redeem them for gold or silver and issued massiveamounts of new assignats. They were officially declared worthless in 1797 .equally well to one invention or another—such as the following (in
Bayard Taylor’s translation):
Faust: Imagination in its highest flight
Exerts itself but cannot grasp it quite.
Mephistopheles (the inventor): If one needs coin the brokers ready
stand.
The Fool (finally): The magic paper ...!416 The Intelligent Investor
TABLE 16-4 Calculation of “True Market Price” and Adjusted
Price/Earnings Ratio of a Common Stock with
Large Amounts of Warrants Outstanding
(Example: National General Corp. in June 1971)
1. Calculation of “True Market Price.”
Market value of 3 issues of warrants, June 30, 1971 $94,000,000
Value of warrants per share of common stock $18.80
Price of common stock alone 24.50
Corrected price of common, adjusted for warrants 43.30
2. Calculation of P/E Ratio to Allow for Warrant Dilution
Before After Warrant Dilution
(1970 earnings) Warrant Company’s Our
A. Before Special Items. Dilution Calculation Calculation
Earned per share $ 2.33 $ 1.60 $ 2.33Price of common 24.50 24.50 43.30 (adj.)
P/E ratio 10.5 /H11003 15.3/H11003 18.5/H11003
B. After Special Items.
Earned per share $ .90 $ 1.33 $ .90Price of common 24.50 24.50 43.30 (adj.)
P/E ratio 27.2 /H11003 18.4/H11003 48.1/H11003
Note that, after special charges, the effect of the company’s calculation is to
increase the earnings per share and reduce the P/E ratio. This is manifestlyabsurd. By our suggested method the effect of the dilution is to increase the P/Eratio substantially, as it should be.Practical Postscript
The crime of the warrants is in “having been born.”* Once born
they function as other security forms, and offer chances of profit as
well as of loss. Nearly all the newer warrants run for a limitedtime—generally between five and ten years. The older warrantswere often perpetual, and they were likely to have fascinating price
histories over the years.
Example : The record books will show that Tri-Continental Corp.
warrants, which date from 1929, sold at a negligible 1/32 of a dol-lar each in the depth of the depression. From that lowly estate theirprice rose to a magnificent 75
3⁄4in 1969, an astronomical advance of
some 242,000%. (The warrants then sold considerably higher than
the shares themselves; this is the kind of thing that occurs on WallStreet through technical developments, such as stock splits.) Arecent example is supplied by Ling-Temco-Vought warrants, whichin the first half of 1971 advanced from 2
1⁄2to 121⁄2—and then fell
back to 4.
No doubt shrewd operations can be carried on in warrants from
time to time, but this is too technical a matter for discussion here.We might say that warrants tend to sell relatively higher than thecorresponding market components related to the conversion privi-lege of bonds or preferred stocks. To that extent there is a validargument for selling bonds with warrants attached rather than cre-
ating an equivalent dilution factor by a convertible issue. If thewarrant total is relatively small there is no point in taking its theo-
retical aspect too seriously; if the warrant issue is large relative to
the outstanding stock, that would probably indicate that the com-pany has a top-heavy senior capitalization. It should be sellingadditional common stock instead. Thus the main objective of ourattack on warrants as a financial mechanism is not to condemntheir use in connection with moderate-size bond issues, but to
argue against the wanton creation of huge “paper-money” mon-
strosities of this genre.Convertible Issues and Warrants 417
* Graham, an enthusiastic reader of Spanish literature, is paraphrasing a line
from the play Life Is a Dream by Pedro Calderon de la Barca (1600–1681):
“The greatest crime of man is having been born. ”COMMENTARY ON C HAPTER 16
That which thou sowest is not quickened, except it die.
—I. Corinthians, XV:36.
THE ZEAL OF THE CONVERT
Although convertible bonds are called “bonds, ” they behave like
stocks, work like options, and are cloaked in obscurity.
If you own a convertible, you also hold an option: You can either
keep the bond and continue to earn interest on it, or you canexchange it for common stock of the issuing company at a predeter-
mined ratio. (An option gives its owner the right to buy or sell another
security at a given price within a specific period of time.) Because theyare exchangeable into stock, convertibles pay lower rates of interestthan most comparable bonds. On the other hand, if a company’s stockprice soars, a convertible bond exchangeable into that stock will per-form much better than a conventional bond. (Conversely, the typical
convertible—with its lower interest rate—will fare worse in a falling
bond market.)
1
4181As a brief example of how convertible bonds work in practice, consider the
4.75% convertible subordinated notes issued by DoubleClick Inc. in 1999.
They pay $47 .50 in interest per year and are each convertible into 24.24
shares of the company’s common stock, a “conversion ratio” of 24.24. As ofyear-end 2002, DoubleClick’s stock was priced at $5.66 a share, giving
each bond a “conversion value” of $137 .20 ($5.66 /H1100324.24). Yet the bonds
traded roughly six times higher, at $881.30—creating a “conversion pre-
mium, ” or excess over their conversion value, of 542%. If you bought at thatprice, your “break-even time, ” or “payback period, ” was very long. (You paidroughly $750 more than the conversion value of the bond, so it will takenearly 16 years of $47 .50 interest payments for you to “earn back” that con-From 1957 through 2002, according to Ibbotson Associates, con-
vertible bonds earned an annual average return of 8.3%—only two per-
centage points below the total return on stocks, but with steadierprices and shallower losses.
2More income, less risk than stocks: No
wonder Wall Street’s salespeople often describe convertibles as a
“best of both worlds” investment. But the intelligent investor willquickly realize that convertibles offer less income and more risk thanmost other bonds. So they could, by the same logic and with equal
justice, be called a “worst of both worlds” investment. Which side youcome down on depends on how you use them.
In truth, convertibles act more like stocks than bonds. The return on
convertibles is about 83% correlated to the Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index—but only about 30% correlated to the performance of
Treasury bonds. Thus, “converts” zig when most bonds zag. For con-
servative investors with most or all of their assets in bonds, adding adiversified bundle of converts is a sensible way to seek stock-like
returns without having to take the scary step of investing in stocksdirectly. You could call convertible bonds “stocks for chickens. ”
As convertibles expert F. Barry Nelson of Advent Capital Manage-
ment points out, this roughly $200 billion market has blossomed since
Graham’s day. Most converts are now medium-term, in the seven-to-10-year range; roughly half are investment-grade; and many issues
now carry some call protection (an assurance against early redemp-
tion). All these factors make them less risky than they used to be.
3Commentary on Chapter 16 419
version premium.) Since each DoubleClick bond is convertible to just over
24 common shares, the stock will have to rise from $5.66 to more than $36
if conversion is to become a practical option before the bonds mature in
2006. Such a stock return is not impossible, but it borders on the miracu-lous. The cash yield on this particular bond scarcely seems adequate, given
the low probability of conversion.
2Like many of the track records commonly cited on Wall Street, this one is
hypothetical. It indicates the return you would have earned in an imagin-ary index fund that owned all major convertibles. It does not include any
management fees or trading costs (which are substantial for convertiblesecurities). In the real world, your returns would have been roughly two per-centage points lower.
3However, most convertible bonds remain junior to other long-term debt
and bank loans—so, in a bankruptcy, convertible holders do not have priorIt’s expensive to trade small lots of convertible bonds, and diversifi-
cation is impractical unless you have well over $100,000 to invest in
this sector alone. Fortunately, today’s intelligent investor has the con-venient recourse of buying a low-cost convertible bond fund. Fidelityand Vanguard offer mutual funds with annual expenses comfortably
under 1%, while several closed-end funds are also available at a rea-sonable cost (and, occasionally, at discounts to net asset value).
4
On Wall Street, cuteness and complexity go hand-in-hand—and
convertibles are no exception. Among the newer varieties are a jumbleof securities with acronymic nicknames like L YONS, ELKS, EYES,PERCS, MIPS, CHIPS, and YEELDS. These intricate securities put a“floor” under your potential losses, but also cap your potential profitsand often compel you to convert into common stock on a fixed date.Like most investments that purport to ensure against loss (see sidebar
on p. 421), these things are generally more trouble than they are
worth. You can best shield yourself against loss not by buying one ofthese quirky contraptions, but by intelligently diversifying your entire
portfolio across cash, bonds, and U.S. and foreign stocks.420 Commentary on Chapter 16
claim to the company’s assets. And, while they are not nearly as dicey as
high-yield “junk” bonds, many converts are still issued by companies withless than sterling credit ratings. Finally, a large portion of the convertible
market is held by hedge funds, whose rapid-fire trading can increase the
volatility of prices.
4For more detail, see www.fidelity.com, www.vanguard.com, and www.
morningstar.com. The intelligent investor will never buy a convertible bond
fund with annual operating expenses exceeding 1.0%.Commentary on Chapter 16 421
UNCOVERING COVERED CALLS
As the bear market clawed its way through 2003, it dug up an
old fad: writing covered call options. (A recent Google searchon “covered call writing” turned up more than 2,600 hits.) What
are covered calls, and how do they work? Imagine that you buy
100 shares of Ixnay Corp. at $95 apiece. You then sell (or“write”) a call option on your shares. In exchange, you get acash payment known as a “call premium. ” (Let’s say it’s $10 pershare.) The buyer of the option, meanwhile, has the contractualright to buy your Ixnay shares at a mutually agreed-upon price—
say, $100. You get to keep the stock so long as it stays below
$100, and you earn a fat $1,000 in premium income, which willcushion the fall if Ixnay’s stock crashes.
Less risk, more income. What’s not to like?Well, now imagine that Ixnay’s stock price jumps overnight to
$110. Then your option buyer will exercise his rights, yanking
your shares away for $100 apiece. You’ve still got your $1,000
in income, but he’s got your Ixnay—and the more it goes up, theharder you will kick yourself.
1
Since the potential gain on a stock is unlimited, while no loss
can exceed 100%, the only person you will enrich with this strat-
egy is your broker. You’ve put a floor under your losses, but
you’ve also slapped a ceiling over your gains. For individualinvestors, covering your downside is never worth surrendering
most of your upside.
1Alternatively, you could buy back the call option, but you would have to take
a loss on it—and options can have even higher trading costs than stocks.CHAPTER 17
Four Extremely Instructive Case Histories
The word “extremely” in the title is a kind of pun, because the his-
tories represent extremes of various sorts that were manifest on
Wall Street in recent years. They hold instruction, and grave warn-ings, for everyone who has a serious connection with the world ofstocks and bonds—not only for ordinary investors and speculators
but for professionals, security analysts, fund managers, trust-
account administrators, and even for bankers who lend money tocorporations. The four companies to be reviewed, and the different
extremes that they illustrate are:
Penn Central (Railroad) Co. An extreme example of the neglect of
the most elementary warning signals of financial weakness, by all
those who had bonds or shares of this system under their supervi-sion. A crazily high market price for the stock of a tottering giant.
Ling-Temco-Vought Inc. An extreme example of quick and
unsound “empire building,” with ultimate collapse practicallyguaranteed; but helped by indiscriminate bank lending.
NVF Corp. An extreme example of one corporate acquisition, in
which a small company absorbed another seven times its size,incurring a huge debt and employing some startling accountingdevices.
AAA Enterprises. An extreme example of public stock-financing
of a small company; its value based on the magic word “franchis-ing,” and little else, sponsored by important stock-exchange
houses. Bankruptcy followed within two years of the stock sale
and the doubling of the initial inflated price in the heedless stockmarket.
422The Penn Central Case
This is the country’s largest railroad in assets and gross rev-
enues. Its bankruptcy in 1970 shocked the financial world. It has
defaulted on most of its bond issues, and has been in danger ofabandoning its operations entirely. Its security issues fell drasti-cally in price, the common stock collapsing from a high level of 86
1⁄2
as recently as 1968 to a low of 51⁄2in 1970. (There seems little doubt
that these shares will be wiped out in reorganization.)*
Our basic point is that the application of the simplest rules of
security analysis and the simplest standards of sound investmentwould have revealed the fundamental weakness of the Penn Cen-
tral system long before its bankruptcy—certainly in 1968, when theshares were selling at their post-1929 record, and when most of its
bond issues could have been exchanged at even prices for well-
secured public-utility obligations with the same coupon rates. Thefollowing comments are in order:
1. In the S & P Bond Guide the interest charges of the system are
shown to have been earned 1.91 times in 1967 and 1.98 times in
1968. The minimum coverage prescribed for railroad bonds in ourtextbook Security Analysis is 5 times before income taxes and 2.9
times after income taxes at regular rates. As far as we know thevalidity of these standards has never been questioned by anyinvestment authority. On the basis of our requirements for earnings
after taxes, the Penn Central fell short of the requirements for safety.
But our after-tax requirement is based on a before-tax ratio of five
times, with regular income tax deducted after the bond interest. Inthe case of Penn Central, it had been paying no income taxes to speak
offor the past 11 years! Hence the coverage of its interest charges
before taxes was less than two times—a totally inadequate figureagainst our conservative requirement of 5 times.Four Extremely Instructive Case Histories 423
* How “shocked” was the financial world by the Penn Central’s bankruptcy,
which was filed over the weekend of June 20–21, 1970? The closing tradein Penn Central’s stock on Friday, June 19, was $11.25 per share—hardly agoing-out-of-business price. In more recent times, stocks like Enron andWorldCom have also sold at relatively high prices shortly before filing forbankruptcy protection.2. The fact that the company paid no income taxes over so long a
period should have raised serious questions about the validity of its
reported earnings.
3. The bonds of the Penn Central system could have been
exchanged in 1968 and 1969, at no sacrifice of price or income, for
far better secured issues. For example, in 1969, Pennsylvania RR4
1⁄2s, due 1994 (part of Penn Central) had a range of 61 to 741⁄2, while
Pennsylvania Electric Co. 43⁄8s, due 1994, had a range of 641⁄4to 721⁄4.
The public utility had earned its interest 4.20 times before taxes in
1968 against only 1.98 times for the Penn Central system; during
1969 the latter’s comparative showing grew steadily worse. Anexchange of this sort was clearly called for, and it would have beena lifesaver for a Penn Central bondholder. (At the end of 1970 therailroad 4
1⁄4s were in default, and selling at only 181⁄2, while the
utility’s 43⁄8s closed at 661⁄2.)
4. Penn Central reported earnings of $3.80 per share in 1968; its
high price of 861⁄2in that year was 24 times such earnings. But any
analyst worth his salt would have wondered how “real” were
earnings of this sort reported without the necessity of paying any
income taxes thereon.
5. For 1966 the newly merged company* had reported “earn-
ings” of $6.80 a share—in reflection of which the common stocklater rose to its peak of 86
1⁄2. This was a valuation of over $2 billion
for the equity. How many of these buyers knew at the time that theso lovely earnings were before a special charge of $275 million or
$12 per share to be taken in 1971 for “costs and losses” incurred on
the merger. O wondrous fairyland of Wall Street where a company
can announce “profits” of $6.80 per share in one place and special
“costs and losses” of $12 in another, and shareholders and specula-
tors rub their hands with glee!†424 The Intelligent Investor
* Penn Central was the product of the merger, announced in 1966, of the
Pennsylvania Railroad and the New York Central Railroad.† This kind of accounting legerdemain, in which profits are reported as if“unusual” or “extraordinary” or “nonrecurring” charges do not matter, antici-pates the reliance on “pro forma” financial statements that became popularin the late 1990s (see the commentary on Chapter 12).6. A railroad analyst would have long since known that the
operating picture of the Penn Central was very bad in comparison
with the more profitable roads. For example, its transportation
ratio was 47.5% in 1968 against 35.2% for its neighbor, Norfolk &Western.*
7. Along the way there were some strange transactions with
peculiar accounting results.
1Details are too complicated to go into
here.
Conclusion : Whether better management could have saved the
Penn Central bankruptcy may be arguable. But there is no doubt
whatever that no bonds and no shares of the Penn Central system
should have remained after 1968 at the latest in any securitiesaccount watched over by competent security analysts, fund man-agers, trust officers, or investment counsel. Moral: Security analysts
should do their elementary jobs before they study stock-marketmovements, gaze into crystal balls, make elaborate mathematicalcalculations, or go on all-expense-paid field trips.†
Ling-Temco-Vought Inc.
This is a story of head-over-heels expansion and head-over-
heels debt, ending up in terrific losses and a host of financial prob-
lems. As usually happens in such cases, a fair-haired boy, or
“young genius,” was chiefly responsible for both the creation of thegreat empire and its ignominious downfall; but there is plenty of
blame to be accorded others as well.‡Four Extremely Instructive Case Histories 425
* A railroad’s “transportation ratio” (now more commonly called its operating
ratio) measures the expenses of running its trains divided by the railroad’s
total revenues. The higher the ratio, the less efficient the railroad. Today
even a ratio of 70% would be considered excellent.†Today, Penn Central is a faded memory. In 1976, it was absorbed into
Consolidated Rail Corp. (Conrail), a federally-funded holding company that bailed out several failed railroads. Conrail sold shares to the public in1987 and, in 1997 , was taken over jointly by CSX Corp. and Norfolk South-ern Corp.‡ Ling-Temco-Vought Inc. was founded in 1955 by James Joseph Ling, anelectrical contractor who sold his first $1 million worth of shares to the pub-The rise and fall of Ling-Temco-Vought can be summarized by
setting forth condensed income accounts and balance-sheet items
for five years between 1958 and 1970. This is done in Table 17-1.
The first column shows the company’s modest beginnings in 1958,when its sales were only $7 million. The next gives figures for 1960;the enterprise had grown twentyfold in only two years, but it wasstill comparatively small. Then came the heyday years to 1967 and1968, in which sales again grew twentyfold to $2.8 billion with the
debt figure expanding from $44 million to an awesome $1,653 mil-
lion. In 1969 came new acquisitions, a further huge increase in debt(to a total of $1,865 million!), and the beginning of serious trouble.
A large loss, after extraordinary items, was reported for the year;
the stock price declined from its 1967 high of 169
1⁄2to a low of 24;
the young genius was superseded as the head of the company. The
1970 results were even more dreadful. The enterprise reported a
final net loss of close to $70 million; the stock fell away to a lowprice of 7
1⁄8, and its largest bond issue was quoted at one time at a
pitiable 15 cents on the dollar. The company’s expansion policy
was sharply reversed, various of its important interests were
placed on the market, and some headway was made in reducing itsmountainous obligations.
The figures in our table speak so eloquently that few comments
are called for. But here are some:426 The Intelligent Investor
lic by becoming his own investment banker, hawking prospectuses from a
booth set up at the Texas State Fair. His success at that led him to acquiredozens of different companies, almost always using LTV’s stock to pay for
them. The more companies LTV acquired, the higher its stock went; the
higher its stock went, the more companies it could afford to acquire. By1969, LTV was the 14th biggest firm on the Fortune 500 list of major U.S.
corporations. And then, as Graham shows, the whole house of cards camecrashing down. (LTV Corp., now exclusively a steelmaker, ended up seekingbankruptcy protection in late 2000.) Companies that grow primarily through
acquisitions are called “serial acquirers”—and the similarity to the term
“serial killers” is no accident. As the case of LTV demonstrates, serial acquir-ers nearly always leave financial death and destruction in their wake.Investors who understood this lesson of Graham’s would have avoided suchdarlings of the 1990s as Conseco, Tyco, and WorldCom.TABLE 17-1 Ling-Temco-Vought Inc., 1958–1970
(In Millions of Dollars Except Earned Per Share)
A. Operating Results 1958 1960 1967 1969 1970
Sales $ 6.9 $143.0 $1,833.0 $3,750.0 $374.0
Net before taxes and interest 0.552 7.287 95.6 124.4 88.0
Interest charges .1 (est.) 1.5 (est.) 17.7 122.6 128.3
(Times earned) (5.5 /H11003) (4.8 /H11003) (54/H11003) (1.02 /H11003) (0.68 /H11003)
Income taxes 0.225 2.686 35.6 cr. 15.2 4.9
Special items dr. 40.6 dr. 18.8
Net after special items 0.227 3.051 34.0 dr. 38.3 dr. 69.6
Balance for common stock 0.202 3.051 30.7 dr. 40.8 dr. 71.3
Earned per share of common 0.17 0.83 5.56 def. 10.59 def. 17.18
B. Financial Position
Total assets 6.4 94.5 845.0 2,944.0 2,582.0
Debt payable within 1 year 1.5 29.3 165.0 389.3 301.3
Long-term debt .5 14.6 202.6 1,500.8 1,394.6
Shareholders’ equity 2.7 28.5 245.0† def. 12.0* def. 69.0*
Ratios
Current assets/current liabilities 1.27 /H11003 1.45/H11003 1.80/H11003 1.52/H11003 1.45/H11003
Equity/long-term debt 5.4 /H11003 2.0/H11003 1.2/H11003 0.17/H11003 0.13/H11003
Market-price range 28–20 1691⁄2–109 973⁄4–241⁄8 291⁄2–71⁄8
* Excluding debt-discount as an asset and deducting pr eferred stock at redemption value.
† As published. cr.:credit. dr.:debit. def.:deficit.1. The company’s expansion period was not without an inter-
ruption. In 1961 it showed a small operating deficit, but—adopting
a practice that was to be seen later in so many reports for 1970—
evidently decided to throw all possible charges and reserves intothe one bad year.* These amounted to a round $13 million, whichwas more than the combined net profits of the preceding threeyears. It was now ready to show “record earnings” in 1962, etc.
2. At the end of 1966 the net tangible assets are given as $7.66 per
share of common (adjusted for a 3-for-2 split). Thus the market
price in 1967 reached 22 times (!) its reported asset value at thetime. At the end of 1968 the balance sheet showed $286 millionavailable for 3,800,000 shares of common and Class AA stock, or
about $77 per share. But if we deduct the preferred stock at fullvalue and exclude the good-will items and the huge bond-discount
“asset,”† there would remain $13 million for the common—a mere$3 per share. This tangible equity was wiped out by the losses of
the following years.
3. Toward the end of 1967 two of our best-regarded banking
firms offered 600,000 shares of Ling-Temco-Vought stock at $111per share. It had been as high as 169
1⁄2. In less than three years the
price fell to 71⁄8.‡428 The Intelligent Investor
* The sordid tradition of hiding a company’s true earnings picture under the
cloak of restructuring charges is still with us. Piling up every possible charge
in one year is sometimes called “big bath” or “kitchen sink” accounting. This
bookkeeping gimmick enables companies to make an easy show of appar-ent growth in the following year—but investors should not mistake that for
real business health.
† The “bond-discount asset” appears to mean that LTV had purchasedsome bonds below their par value and was treating that discount as an
asset, on the grounds that the bonds could eventually be sold at par. Gra-
ham scoffs at this, since there is rarely any way to know what a bond’s mar-ket price will be on a given date in the future. If the bonds could be sold onlyat values below par, this “asset” would in fact be a liability.
‡ We can only imagine what Graham would have thought of the investmentbanking firms that brought InfoSpace, Inc. public in December 1998. Thestock (adjusted for later splits) opened for trading at $31.25, peaked at4. At the end of 1967 the bank loans had reached $161 million,
and a year later they stood at $414 million—which should have
been a frightening figure. In addition, the long-term debt
amounted to $1,237 million. By 1969 combined debt reached a totalof $1,869 million. This may have been the largest combined debtfigure of any industrial company anywhere and at any time, withthe single exception of the impregnable Standard Oil of N.J.
5. The losses in 1969 and 1970 far exceeded the total profits since
the formation of the company.
Moral : The primary question raised in our mind by the Ling-
Temco-Vought story is how the commercial bankers could havebeen persuaded to lend the company such huge amounts of moneyduring its expansion period. In 1966 and earlier the company’s
coverage of interest charges did not meet conservative standards,
and the same was true of the ratio of current assets to current liabil-ities and of stock equity to total debt. But in the next two years thebanks advanced the enterprise nearly $400 million additional forfurther “diversification.” This was not good business for them, andit was worse in its implications for the company’s shareholders. If
the Ling-Temco-Vought case will serve to keep commercial banks
from aiding and abetting unsound expansions of this type in thefuture, some good may come of it at last.*
The NVF Takeover of Sharon Steel (A Collector’s Item)
At the end of 1968 NVF Company was a company with $4.6 mil-
lion of long-term debt, $17.4 million of stock capital, $31 million of
sales, and $502,000 of net income (before a special credit of
$374,000). Its business was described as “vulcanized fiber and plas-tics.” The management decided to take over the Sharon Steel Corp.,Four Extremely Instructive Case Histories 429
$1305.32 per share in March 2000, and finished 2002 at a princely $8.45
per share.
* Graham would have been disappointed, though surely not surprised, tosee that commercial banks have chronically kept supporting “unsoundexpansions. ” Enron and WorldCom, two of the biggest collapses in corpo-rate history, were aided and abetted by billions of dollars in bank loans.which had $43 million of long-term debt, $101 million of stock cap-
ital, $219 million of sales, and $2,929,000 of net earnings. The com-
pany it wished to acquire was thus seven times the size of NVF. In
early 1969 it made an offer for all the shares of Sharon. The termsper share were $70 face amount of NVF junior 5% bonds, due 1994,plus warrants to buy 1
1⁄2shares of NVF stock at $22 per share of
NVF. The management of Sharon strenuously resisted this
takeover attempt, but in vain. NVF acquired 88% of the Sharon
stock under the offer, issuing therefore $102 million of its 5% bondsand warrants for 2,197,000 of its shares. Had the offer been 100%operative the consolidated enterprise would, for the year 1968,have had $163 million in debt, only $2.2 million in tangible stockcapital, $250 million of sales. The net-earnings question would
have been a bit complicated, but the company subsequently stated
them as a net loss of 50 cents per share of NVF stocks, before anextraordinary credit, and net earnings of 3 cents per share after
such credit.*
First Comment : Among all the takeovers effected in the year
1969 this was no doubt the most extreme in its financial dispropor-tions. The acquiring company had assumed responsibility for anew and top-heavy debt obligation, and it had changed its calcu-
lated 1968 earnings from a profit to a loss into the bargain. A mea-
sure of the impairment of the company’s financial position by this430 The Intelligent Investor
* In June 1972 (just after Graham finished this chapter), a Federal judge
found that NVF’s chairman, Victor Posner, had improperly diverted the pen-
sion assets of Sharon Steel “to assist affiliated companies in their takeovers
of other corporations. ” In 1977 , the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commis-sion secured a permanent injunction against Posner, NVF, and Sharon Steel
to prevent them from future violations of Federal laws against securities
fraud. The Commission alleged that Posner and his family had improperlyobtained $1.7 million in personal perks from NVF and Sharon, overstated
Sharon’s pretax earnings by $13.9 million, misrecorded inventory, and
“shifted income and expenses from one year to another. ” Sharon Steel,which Graham had singled out with his cold and skeptical eye, becameknown among Wall Street wags as “Share and Steal. ” Posner was later acentral force in the wave of leveraged buyouts and hostile takeovers thatswept the United States in the 1980s, as he became a major customer forthe junk bonds underwritten by Drexel Burnham Lambert.step is found in the fact that the new 5% bonds did not sell higher
than 42 cents on the dollar during the year of issuance. This would
have indicated grave doubt of the safety of the bonds and of the
company’s future; however, the management actually exploitedthe bond price in a way to save the company annual income taxesof about $1,000,000 as will be shown.
The 1968 report, published after the Sharon takeover, contained
a condensed picture of its results, carried back to the year-end. This
contained two most unusual items:
1. There is listed as an asset $58,600,000 of “deferred debt
expense.” This sum is greater than the entire “stockholders’
equity,” placed at $40,200,000.
2. However, not included in the shareholders’ equity is an item
of $20,700,000 designated as “excess of equity over cost of invest-ment in Sharon.”
Second Comment : If we eliminate the debt expense as an asset,
which it hardly seems to be, and include the other item in theshareholders’ equity (where it would normally belong), then wehave a more realistic statement of tangible equity for NVF stock,viz., $2,200,000. Thus the first effect of the deal was to reduceNVF’s “real equity” from $17,400,000 to $2,200,000 or from $23.71
per share to about $3 per share, on 731,000 shares. In addition the
NVF shareholders had given to others the right to buy 3
1⁄2times as
many additional shares at six points below the market price at theclose of 1968. The initial market value of the warrants was then
about $12 each, or a total of some $30 million for those involved in
the purchase offer. Actually, the market value of the warrants wellexceeded the total market value of the outstanding NVF stock—
another evidence of the tail-wagging-dog nature of the transaction.
The Accounting Gimmicks
When we pass from this pro forma balance sheet to the next
year’s report we find several strange-appearing entries. In addition
to the basic interest expense (a hefty $7,500,000), there is deducted$1,795,000 for “amortization of deferred debt expense.” But thislast is nearly offset on the next line by a very unusual income itemFour Extremely Instructive Case Histories 431indeed: “amortization of equity over cost of investment in sub-
sidiary: Cr. $1,650,000.” In one of the footnotes we find an entry,
not appearing in any other report that we know of: Part of the stock
capital is there designated as “fair market value of warrants issuedin connection with acquisition, etc., $22,129,000.”
What on earth do all these entries mean? None of them is even
referred to in the descriptive text of the 1969 report. The trainedsecurity analyst has to figure out these mysteries by himself,
almost in detective fashion. He finds that the underlying idea is to
derive a tax advantage from the low initial price of the 5% deben-tures. For readers who may be interested in this ingenious arrange-
ment we set forth our solution in Appendix 6.
Other Unusual Items
1. Right after the close of 1969 the company bought in no less
than 650,000 warrants at a price of $9.38 each. This was extraordi-
nary when we consider that ( a) NVF itself had only $700,000 in
cash at the year-end, and had $4,400,000 of debt due in 1970 (evi-
dently the $6 million paid for the warrants had to be borrowed); ( b)
it was buying in this warrant “paper money” at a time when its 5%bonds were selling at less than 40 cents on the dollar—ordinarily awarning that financial difficulties lay ahead.
2. As a partial offset to this, the company had retired $5,100,000
of its bonds along with 253,000 warrants in exchange for a like
amount of common stock. This was possible because, by the
vagaries of the securities markets, people were selling the 5%bonds at less than 40 while the common sold at an average price of
13
1⁄2, paying no dividend.
3. The company had plans in operation not only for selling stock
to its employees, but also for selling them a larger number of war-
rants to buy the stock. Like the stock purchases the warrants were
to be paid for 5% down and the rest over many years in the future.
This is the only such employee-purchase plan for warrants that we
know of. Will someone soon invent and sell on installments a rightto buy a right to buy a share, and so on?
4. In the year 1969 the newly controlled Sharon Steel Co.
changed its method of arriving at its pension costs, and also432 The Intelligent Investoradopted lower depreciation rates. These accounting changes added
about $1 per share to the reported earnings of NVF before dilution.
5. At the end of 1970 Standard & Poor’s Stock Guide reported that
NVF shares were selling at a price/earning ratio of only 2, the lowestfigure for all the 4,500-odd issues in the booklet. As the old Wall Street
saying went, this was “important if true.” The ratio was based on theyear’s closing price of 8
3⁄4and the computed “earnings” of $5.38 per
share for the 12 months ended September 1970. (Using these figuresthe shares were selling at only 1.6 times earnings.) But this ratio did
not allow for the large dilution factor,* nor for the adverse resultsactually realized in the last quarter of 1970. When the full year’s fig-ures finally appeared, they showed only $2.03 per share earned forthe stock, before allowing for dilution, and $1.80 per share on adiluted basis. Note also that the aggregate market price of the stock
and warrants on that date was about $14 million against a bonded
debt of $135 million—a skimpy equity position indeed.
AAA Enterprises
History
About 15 years ago a college student named Williams began
selling mobile homes (then called “trailers”).† In 1965 he incorpo-Four Extremely Instructive Case Histories 433
* The “large dilution factor” would be triggered when NVF employees exer-
cised their warrants to buy common stock. The company would then have to
issue more shares, and its net earnings would be divided across a much
greater number of shares outstanding.† Jackie G. Williams founded AAA Enterprises in 1958. On its first day of trad-
ing, the stock soared 56% to close at $20.25. Williams later announced that
AAA would come up with a new franchising concept every month (if peoplewould step into a mobile home to get their income taxes done by “Mr. Tax of
America, ” just imagine what else they might do inside a trailer!). But AAA ran
out of time and money before Williams ran out of ideas. The history of AAAEnterprises is reminiscent of the saga of a later company with charismatic man-agement and scanty assets: ZZZZ Best achieved a stock-market value ofroughly $200 million in the late 1980s, even though its purported industrialvacuum-cleaning business was little more than a telephone and a rented officerun by a teenager named Barry Minkow. ZZZZ Best went bust and Minkowrated his business. In that year he sold $5,800,000 of mobile homes
and earned $61,000 before corporate tax. By 1968 he had joined the
“franchising” movement and was selling others the right to sell
mobile homes under his business name. He also conceived thebright idea of going into the business of preparing income-taxreturns, using his mobile homes as offices. He formed a subsidiarycompany called Mr. Tax of America, and of course started to sellfranchises to others to use the idea and the name. He multiplied
the number of corporate shares to 2,710,000 and was ready for a
stock offering. He found that one of our largest stock-exchangehouses, along with others, was willing to handle the deal. In March
1969 they offered the public 500,000 shares of AAA Enterprises at
$13 per share. Of these, 300,000 were sold for Mr. Williams’s per-sonal account and 200,000 were sold for the company account,adding $2,400,000 to its resources. The price of the stock promptlydoubled to 28, or a value of $84 million for the equity, against abook value of, say, $4,200,000 and maximum reported earnings of
$690,000. The stock was thus selling at a tidy 115 times its current
(and largest) earnings per share. No doubt Mr. Williams hadselected the name AAA Enterprise so that it might be among the
first in the phone books and the yellow pages. A collateral result
was that his company was destined to appear as the first name inStandard & Poor’s Stock Guide. Like Abu-Ben-Adhem’s, it led all
the rest.* This gives a special reason to select it as a harrowingexample of 1969 new financing and “hot issues.”
Comment : This was not a bad deal for Mr. Williams. The
300,000 shares he sold had a book value in December of 1968 of
$180,000 and he netted therefor 20 times as much, or a cool
$3,600,000. The underwriters and distributors split $500,000
between them, less expenses.434 The Intelligent Investor
went to jail. Even as you read this, another similar company is being formed,
and a new generation of “investors” will be taken for a ride. No one who hasread Graham, however, should climb on board.
* In “Abou Ben Adhem, ” by the British Romantic poet Leigh Hunt
(1784–1859), a righteous Muslim sees an angel writing in a golden book“the names of those who love the Lord. ” When the angel tells Abou that hisname is not among them, Abou says, “I pray thee, then, write me as one thatloves his fellow men. ” The angel returns the next night to show Abou thebook, in which now “Ben Adhem’s name led all the rest. ”1. This did not seem so brilliant a deal for the clients of the sell-
ing houses. They were asked to pay about ten times the book value
of the stock, after the bootstrap operation of increasing their equity
per share from 59 cents to $1.35 with their own money.* Before thebest year 1968, the company’s maximum earnings had been aridiculous 7 cents per share. There were ambitious plans for thefuture, of course—but the public was being asked to pay heavily inadvance for the hoped-for realization of these plans.
2. Nonetheless, the price of the stock doubled soon after original
issuance, and any one of the brokerage-house clients could havegotten out at a handsome profit. Did this fact alter the flotation, or
did the advance possibility that it might happen exonerate the
original distributors of the issue from responsibility for this publicoffering and its later sequel? Not an easy question to answer, but it
deserves careful consideration by Wall Street and the governmentregulatory agencies.†
Subsequent History
With its enlarged capital AAA Enterprises went into two addi-
tional businesses. In 1969 it opened a chain of retail carpet stores, and
it acquired a plant that manufactured mobile homes. The resultsreported for the first nine months were not exactly brilliant, but they
were a little better than the year before—22 cents a share against 14Four Extremely Instructive Case Histories 435
* By purchasing more common stock at a premium to its book value, the
investing public increased the value of AAA’s equity per share. But investors
were only pulling themselves up by their own bootstraps, since most of the
rise in shareholders’ equity came from the public’s own willingness to over-pay for the stock.
† Graham’s point is that investment banks are not entitled to take credit for
the gains a hot stock may produce right after its initial public offering unlessthey are also willing to take the blame for the stock’s performance in the
longer term. Many Internet IPOs rose 1,000% or more in 1999 and early
2000; most of them lost more than 95% in the subsequent three years.How could these early gains earned by a few investors justify the massivedestruction of wealth suffered by the millions who came later? Many IPOswere, in fact, deliberately underpriced to “manufacture” immediate gainsthat would attract more attention for the next offering.cents. What happened in the next months was literally incredible.
The company lost $4,365,000, or $1.49 per share. This consumed all its
capital before the financing, plus the entire $2,400,000 received on the
sale of stock plus two-thirds of the amount reported as earned in thefirst nine months of 1969. There was left a pathetic $242,000, or 8 centsper share, of capital for the public shareholders who had paid $13 forthe new offering only seven months before. Nonetheless the sharesclosed the year 1969 at 8
1⁄8bid, or a “valuation” of more than $25 mil-
lion for the company.
Further Comment : 1. It is too much to believe that the company
had actually earned $686,000 from January to September 1969 andthen lost $4,365,000 in the next three months. There was somethingsadly, badly, and accusingly wrong about the September 30 report.
2. The year’s closing price of 8
1⁄8bid was even more of a demon-
stration of the complete heedlessness of stock-market prices than
were the original offering price of 13 or the subsequent “hot-issue”
advance to a high bid of 28. These latter quotations at least werebased on enthusiasm and hope—out of all proportion to reality and
common sense, but at least comprehensible. The year-end valuationof $25 million was given to a company that had lost all but a minus-
cule remnant of its capital, for which a completely insolvent condi-
tion was imminent, and for which the words “enthusiasm” or “hope”
would be only bitter sarcasms. (It is true the year-end figures had notbeen published by December 31, but it is the business of Wall Street
houses associated with a company to have monthly operating state-
ments and a fairly exact idea of how things are going.)
Final Chapter
For the first half of 1970 the company reported a further loss of
$1 million. It now had a good-sized capital deficit. It was kept out
of bankruptcy by loans made by Mr. Williams, up to a total of$2,500,000. No further statements seem to have been issued, until
in January 1971 AAA Enterprises finally filed a petition in bank-
ruptcy. The quotation for the stock at month-end was still 50 centsa share bid, or $1,500,000 for the entire issue, which evidently hadno more than wallpaper value. End of our story.
Moral and Questions : The speculative public is incorrigible. In436 The Intelligent Investorfinancial terms it cannot count beyond 3. It will buy anything, at any
price, if there seems to be some “action” in progress. It will fall forany company identified with “franchising,” computers, electronics,science, technology, or what have you, when the particular fashion israging. Our readers, sensible investors all, are of course above suchfoolishness. But questions remain: Should not responsible invest-ment houses be honor-bound to refrain from identifying themselveswith such enterprises, nine out of ten of which may be foredoomed toultimate failure? (This was actually the situation when the authorentered Wall Street in 1914. By comparison it would seem that theethical standards of the “Street” have fallen rather than advanced inthe ensuing 57 years, despite all the reforms and all the controls.)Could and should the SEC be given other powers to protect the pub-lic, beyond the present ones which are limited to requiring the print-ing of all important relevant facts in the offering prospectus? Shouldsome kind of box score for public offerings of various types be com-piled and published in conspicuous fashion? Should every prospec-
tus, and perhaps every confirmation of sale under an original
offering, carry some kind of formal warranty that the offering pricefor the issue is not substantially out of line with the ruling prices for
issues of the same general type already established in the market? As
we write this edition a movement toward reform of Wall Streetabuses is under way. It will be difficult to impose worthwhile
changes in the field of new offerings, because the abuses are so
largely the result of the public’s own heedlessness and greed. But thematter deserves long and careful consideration.*Four Extremely Instructive Case Histories 437
* The first four sentences of Graham’s paragraph could read as the official
epitaph of the Internet and telecommunications bubble that burst in early
2000. Just as the Surgeon General’s warning on the side of a cigarette
pack does not stop everyone from lighting up, no regulatory reform will everprevent investors from overdosing on their own greed. (Not even Commu-
nism can outlaw market bubbles; the Chinese stock market shot up 101.7%
in the first half of 1999, then crashed.) Nor can investment banks ever beentirely cleansed of their own compulsion to sell any stock at any price themarket will bear. The circle can only be broken one investor, and one finan-cial adviser, at a time. Mastering Graham’s principles (see especially Chap-ters 1, 8, and 20) is the best way to start.COMMENTARY ON C HAPTER 17
The wisdom god, Woden, went out to the king of the trolls, got
him in an armlock, and demanded to know of him how order
might triumph over chaos. “Give me your left eye, ” said the troll,“and I’ll tell you. ” Without hesitation, Woden gave up his lefteye. “Now tell me. ” The troll said, “The secret is, ‘Watch withboth eyes!’”
—John Gardner
THE MORE THINGS CHANG E...
Graham highlights four extremes:
• an overpriced “tottering giant”
• an empire-building conglomerate• a merger in which a tiny firm took over a big one
• an initial public offering of shares in a basically worthless com-
pany
The past few years have provided enough new cases of Graham’s
extremes to fill an encyclopedia. Here is a sampler:
LUCENT, NOT TRANSPARENT
In mid-2000, Lucent Technologies Inc. was owned by more investors
than any other U.S. stock. With a market capitalization of $192.9 bil-
lion, it was the 12th-most-valuable company in America.
Was that giant valuation justified? Let’s look at some basics from
Lucent’s financial report for the fiscal quarter ended June 30, 2000:
1
4381This document, like all the financial reports cited in this chapter, is readily
available to the public through the EDGAR Database at www.sec.gov.A closer reading of Lucent’s report sets alarm bells jangling like an
unanswered telephone switchboard:
• Lucent had just bought an optical equipment supplier, Chromatis
Networks, for $4.8 billion—of which $4.2 billion was “goodwill” (or
cost above book value). Chromatis had 150 employees, no cus-tomers, and zero revenues, so the term “goodwill” seems inade-
quate; perhaps “hope chest” is more accurate. If Chromatis’s
embryonic products did not work out, Lucent would have toreverse the goodwill and charge it off against future earnings.
• A footnote discloses that Lucent had lent $1.5 billion to pur-
chasers of its products. Lucent was also on the hook for $350million in guarantees for money its customers had borrowed else-
where. The total of these “customer financings” had doubled in a
year—suggesting that purchasers were running out of cash to buyLucent’s products. What if they ran out of cash to pay theirdebts?
• Finally, Lucent treated the cost of developing new software as a
“capital asset. ” Rather than an asset, wasn’t that a routine busi-ness expense that should come out of earnings?Commentary on Chapter 17 439
FIGURE 17-1 Lucent Technologies Inc.
For the quarter ended . . .
June 30, 2000 June 30, 1999
Income
Revenues 8,713 7,403
Income (loss) from continuing operations (14) 622Income (loss) from discontinued operations (287) 141
Net income (301) 763
Assets
Cash 710 1,495Receivables 10,101 9,486Goodwill 8,736 3,340*
Capitalized software development costs 576 412
Total assets 46,340 37,156
All numbers in millions of dollars. * Other assets, which includes goodwill.
Source: Lucent quarterly financial reports (Form 10-Q).CONCLUSION: In August 2001, Lucent shut down the Chromatis
division after its products reportedly attracted only two customers.2In
fiscal year 2001, Lucent lost $16.2 billion; in fiscal year 2002, it lost
another $11.9 billion. Included in those losses were $3.5 billion in“provisions for bad debts and customer financings, ” $4.1 billion in“impairment charges related to goodwill, ” and $362 million in charges“related to capitalized software. ”
Lucent’s stock, at $51.062 on June 30, 2000, finished 2002 at
$1.26—a loss of nearly $190 billion in market value in two-and-a-halfyears.
THE ACQUISITION MAGICIAN
To describe Tyco International Ltd., we can only paraphrase Winston
Churchill and say that never has so much been sold by so many to sofew. From 1997 through 2001, this Bermuda-based conglomerate spenta total of more than $37 billion—most of it in shares of Tyco stock—buyingcompanies the way Imelda Marcos bought shoes. In fiscal year 2000
alone, according to its annual report, Tyco acquired “approximately 200companies”—an average of more than one every other day.
The result? Tyco grew phenomenally fast; in five years, revenues
went from $7 .6 billion to $34 billion, and operating income shot from a$476 million loss to a $6.2 billion gain. No wonder the company had a
total stock-market value of $114 billion at the end of 2001.
But Tyco’s financial statements were at least as mind-boggling as
its growth. Nearly every year, they featured hundreds of millions of dol-lars in acquisition-related charges. These expenses fell into three main
categories:
1) “merger” or “restructuring” or “other nonrecurring” costs,
2) “charges for the impairment of long-lived assets, ” and
3) “write-offs of purchased in-process research and development. ”
For the sake of brevity, let’s refer to the first kind of charge as
MORON, the second as CHILLA, and the third as WOOPIPRAD. Howdid they show up over time?440 Commentary on Chapter 17
2The demise of the Chromatis acquisition is discussed in The Financial Times,
August 29, 2001, p. 1, and September 1/September 2, 2001, p. XXIII.As you can see, the MORON charges— which are supposed to be
nonrecurring —showed up in four out of five years and totaled a whopping
$2.5 billion. CHILLA cropped up just as chronically and amounted to
more than $700 million. WOOPIPRAD came to another half-billion dol-lars.
3
The intelligent investor would ask:
• If Tyco’s strategy of growth-through-acquisition was such a neat
idea, how come it had to spend an average of $750 million a year
cleaning up after itself?
• If, as seems clear, Tyco was not in the business of making things—
but rather in the business of buying other companies that makethings—then why were its MORON charges “nonrecurring”?
Weren’t they just part of Tyco’s normal costs of doing business?
• And with accounting charges for past acquisitions junking up every
year’s earnings, who could tell what next year’s would be?Commentary on Chapter 17 441
FIGURE 17-2 Tyco International Ltd.
Fiscal
year MORON CHILLA WOOPIPRAD
1997 918 148 361
1998 0 0 01999 1,183 335 0
2000 4175 99 0
2001 234 120 184
Totals 2,510 702 545
All figures are as originally reported, stated in hundreds of millions of dollars.
“Mergers & acquisitions” totals do not include pooling-of-interests deals.Source: Tyco International annual reports (Form 10-K).
3When accounting for acquisitions, loading up on WOOPIPRAD enabled
Tyco to reduce the portion of the purchase price that it allocated to goodwill.
Since WOOPIPRAD can be expensed up front, while goodwill (under theaccounting rules then in force) had to be written off over multi-year periods,this maneuver enabled Tyco to minimize the impact of goodwill charges onits future earnings.In fact, an investor couldn’t even tell what Tyco’s past earnings
were. In 1999, after an accounting review by the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission, Tyco retroactively added $257 million inMORON charges to its 1998 expenses—meaning that those “nonre-curring” costs had actually recurred in that year, too. At the same time,
the company rejiggered its originally reported 1999 charges:MORON dropped to $929 million while CHILLA rose to $507 million.
Tyco was clearly growing in size, but was it growing more prof-
itable? No outsider could safely tell.
CONCLUSION: In fiscal year 2002, Tyco lost $9.4 billion. The
stock, which had closed at $58.90 at year-end 2001, finished 2002 at
$17 .08—a loss of 71% in twelve months.
4
A MINNOW SWALLOWS A WHALE
On January 10, 2000, America Online, Inc. and Time Warner Inc.
announced that they would merge in a deal initially valued at $156 billion.
As of December 31, 1999, AOL had $10.3 billion in assets, and its
revenues over the previous 12 months had amounted to $5.7 billion.Time Warner, on the other hand, had $51.2 billion in assets and rev-
enues of $27 .3 billion. Time Warner was a vastly bigger company by
any measure except one: the valuation of its stock. Because AmericaOnline bedazzled investors simply by being in the Internet industry, its
stock sold for a stupendous 164 times its earnings. Stock in Time
Warner, a grab bag of cable television, movies, music, and magazines,sold for around 50 times earnings.
In announcing the deal, the two companies called it a “strategic
merger of equals. ” Time Warner’s chairman, Gerald M. Levin, declaredthat “the opportunities are limitless for everyone connected to AOL
Time Warner”—above all, he added, for its shareholders.
Ecstatic that their stock might finally get the cachet of an Internet442 Commentary on Chapter 17
4In 2002, Tyco’s former chief executive, L. Dennis Kozlowski, was charged
by state and Federal legal authorities with income tax fraud and improperly
diverting Tyco’s corporate assets for his own use, including the appropria-tion of $15,000 for an umbrella stand and $6,000 for a shower curtain.Kozlowski denied all charges.darling, Time Warner shareholders overwhelmingly approved the deal.
But they overlooked a few things:
• This “merger of equals” was designed to give America Online’s
shareholders 55% of the combined company—even though Time
Warner was five times bigger.
• For the second time in three years, the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission was investigating whether America Online
had improperly accounted for marketing costs.
• Nearly half of America Online’s total assets—$4.9 billion worth—
was made up of “available-for-sale equity securities. ” If the prices
of publicly-traded technology stocks fell, that could wipe outmuch of the company’s asset base.
CONCLUSION: On January 11, 2001, the two firms finalized their
merger. AOL Time Warner Inc. lost $4.9 billion in 2001 and—in the
most gargantuan loss ever recorded by a corporation—another $98.7
billion in 2002. Most of the losses came from writing down the valueof America Online. By year-end 2002, the shareholders for whom
Levin predicted “unlimited” opportunities had nothing to show but a
roughly 80% loss in the value of their shares since the deal was firstannounced.
5
CAN YOU FLUNK 
INVESTING KINDERGARTEN?
On May 20, 1999, eToys Inc. sold 8% of its stock to the public. Four
of Wall Street’s most prestigious investment banks—Goldman, Sachs
& Co.; BancBoston Robertson Stephens; Donaldson, Lufkin & Jen-
rette; and Merrill Lynch & Co.—underwrote 8,320,000 shares at $20apiece, raising $166.4 million. The stock roared up, closing at
$76.5625, a 282.8% gain in its first day of trading. At that price,
eToys (with its 102 million shares) had a market value of $7 .8 billion.
6Commentary on Chapter 17 443
5Disclosure: Jason Zweig is an employee of Time Inc., formerly a division of
Time Warner and now a unit of AOL Time Warner Inc.
6eToys’ prospectus had a gatefold cover featuring an original cartoon of
Arthur the aardvark, showing in comic style how much easier it would be toWhat kind of business did buyers get for that price? eToys’ sales
had risen 4,261% in the previous year, and it had added 75,000 cus-
tomers in the last quarter alone. But, in its 20 months in business,eToys had produced total sales of $30.6 million, on which it had run anet loss of $30.8 million—meaning that eToys was spending $2 to sell
every dollar’s worth of toys.
The IPO prospectus also disclosed that eToys would use some
proceeds of the offering to acquire another online operation, Baby-Center, Inc., which had lost $4.5 million on $4.8 million in sales overthe previous year. (To land this prize, eToys would pay a mere $205
million.) And eToys would “reserve” 40.6 million shares of commonstock for future issuance to its management. So, if eToys ever mademoney, its net income would have to be divided not among 102 millionshares, but among 143 million—diluting any future earnings per shareby nearly one-third.
A comparison of eToys with Toys “R” Us, Inc.—its biggest rival—is
shocking. In the preceding three months, Toys “R” Us had earned $27
million in net income and had sold over 70 times more goods thaneToys had sold in an entire year. And yet as Figure 17-3 shows, the
stock market valued eToys at nearly $2 billion more than Toys “R” Us.
CONCLUSION: On March 7 , 2001, eToys filed for bankruptcy pro-
tection after racking up net losses of more than $398 million in its
brief life as a public company. The stock, which peaked at $86 pershare in October 1999, last traded for a penny.444 Commentary on Chapter 17
buy tchotchkes for children at eToys than at a traditional toy store. As analyst
Gail Bronson of IPO Monitor told the Associated Press on the day of eToys’
stock offering, “eToys has very, very smartly managed the development ofthe company last year and positioned themselves to be the children’s center
of the Internet. ” Added Bronson: “The key to a successful IPO, especially a
dot-com IPO, is good marketing and branding. ” Bronson was partly right:That’s the key to a successful IPO for the issuing company and its bankers.Unfortunately, for investors the key to a successful IPO is earnings, which
eToys didn’t have.Commentary on Chapter 17 445
FIGURE 17-3 A Toy Story
eToys Inc. Toys “R” Us, 
Inc.
Fiscal year Fiscal quarter 
ended 3/31/1999 ended 5/1/1999
Net sales 30 2,166
Net income (29) 27
Cash 20 289Total assets 31 8,067
Market value of common stock 
(5/20/1999) 7,780 5,650
All amounts in millions of dollars.
Sources: The companies’ SEC filings.CHAPTER 18
A Comparison of Eight Pairs of Companies
In this chapter we shall attempt a novel form of exposition. By
selecting eight pairs of companies which appear next to each other,
or nearly so, on the stock-exchange list we hope to bring home in aconcrete and vivid manner some of the many varieties of character,financial structure, policies, performance, and vicissitudes of cor-
porate enterprises, and of the investment and speculative attitudes
found on the financial scene in recent years. In each comparison weshall comment only on those aspects that have a special meaning
and import.
Pair I: Real Estate Investment Trust (stores, offices, factories,
etc.) and Realty Equities Corp. of New York (real estateinvestment; general construction)
In this first comparison we depart from the alphabetical order
used for the other pairs. It has a special significance for us, since it
seems to encapsulate, on the one hand, all that has been reason-
able, stable, and generally good in the traditional methods of handling other people’s money, in contrast—in the other com-pany—with the reckless expansion, the financial legerdemain, andthe roller-coaster changes so often found in present-day corporateoperations. The two enterprises have similar names, and for many
years they appeared side by side on the American Stock Exchange
list. Their stock-ticker symbols—REI and REC—could easily havebeen confused. But one of them is a staid New England trust,administered by three trustees, with operations dating back nearlya century, and with dividends paid continuously since 1889. It haskept throughout to the same type of prudent investments, limiting
446its expansion to a moderate rate and its debt to an easily manage-
able figure.*
The other is a typical New York-based sudden-growth venture,
which in eight years blew up its assets from $6.2 million to $154million, and its debts in the same proportion; which moved outfrom ordinary real-estate operations to a miscellany of ventures,including two racetracks, 74 movie theaters, three literary agencies,a public-relations firm, hotels, supermarkets, and a 26% interest in
a large cosmetics firm (which went bankrupt in 1970).† This con-
glomeration of business ventures was matched by a correspondingvariety of corporate devices, including the following:
1. A preferred stock entitled to $7 annual dividends, but with a
par value of only $1, and carried as a liability at $1 per share.
2. A stated common-stock value of $2,500,000 ($1 per share),
more than offset by a deduction of $5,500,000 as the cost of209,000 shares of reacquired stock.
3. Three series of stock-option warrants, giving rights to buy a
total of 1,578,000 shares.
4. At least six different kinds of debt obligations, in the form of
mortgages, debentures, publicly held notes, notes payable tobanks, “notes, loans, and contracts payable,” and loanspayable to the Small Business Administration, adding up to
over $100 million in March 1969. In addition it had the usual
taxes and accounts payable.
Let us present first a few figures of the two enterprises as they
appeared in 1960 (Table 18-1A). Here we find the Trust shares sell-ing in the market for nine times the aggregate value of Equities
stock. The Trust enterprise had a smaller relative debt and a betterA Comparison of Eight Pairs of Companies 447
* Here Graham is describing Real Estate Investment Trust, which was
acquired by San Francisco Real Estate Investors in 1983 for $50 a share.The next paragraph describes Realty Equities Corp. of New York.† The actor Paul Newman was briefly a major shareholder in Realty EquitiesCorp. of New York after it bought his movie-production company, Kayos,Inc., in 1969.ratio of net to gross, but the price of the common was higher in
relation to per-share earnings.
In Table 18-1B we present the situation about eight years later.
The Trust had “kept the noiseless tenor of its way,” increasing bothits revenues and its per-share earnings by about three-quarters.*
But Realty Equities had been metamorphosed into something mon-
strous and vulnerable.
How did Wall Street react to these diverse developments? By
paying as little attention as possible to the Trust and a lot to RealtyEquities. In 1968 the latter shot up from 10 to 37
3⁄4and the listed
warrants from 6 to 361⁄2, on combined sales of 2,420,000 shares.
While this was happening the Trust shares advanced sedately from
20 to 301⁄4on modest volume. The March 1969 balance sheet of
Equities was to show an asset value of only $3.41 per share, lessthan a tenth of its high price that year. The book value of the Trust
shares was $20.85.448 The Intelligent Investor
TABLE 18-1A. Pair 1. Real Estate Investment Trust vs. 
Realty Equities Corp. in 1960
Real Estate Realty Equities Corp. 
Investment Trust of New York
Gross revenues $ 3,585,000 $1,484,000
Net income 485,000 150,000
Earned per share .66 .47Dividend per share none .10
Book value per share $20. $4.
Price range 20–12 5
3⁄8–43⁄4
Total assets $22,700,000 $6,200,000
Total liabilities 7,400,000 5,000,000
Book value of common 15,300,000 1,200,000
Average market value of common 12,200,000 1,360,000
* Graham, an avid reader of poetry, is quoting Thomas Gray’s “Elegy Written
in a Country Churchyard. ”A Comparison of Eight Pairs of Companies 449
TABLE 18-1B. Pair 1.
Real Estate Realty Equities Corp. 
Investment Trust of New York
Price, December 31, 1968 261⁄2 321⁄2
Number of shares of common 1,423,000 2,311,000 (March ’69)
Market value of common $37,800,000 $75,000,000Estimated market value of warrants — 30,000,000
a
Estimated market value of 
common and warrants — 105,000,000
Debt 9,600,000 100,800,000
Preferred stock — 2,900,000
Total capitalization $47,400,000 $208,700,000Market value per share of 
common, adjusted for warrants — 45 (est.)
Book value per share $20.85 (Nov.) $3.41
November 1968 March 1969
Revenues $6,281,000 $39,706,000Net for interest 2,696,000 11,182,000
Interest charges 590,000 6,684,000
Income tax 58,000
b2,401,000
Preferred dividend 174,000Net for common 2,048,000 1,943,000
Special items 245,000 cr. 1,896,000 dr.
Final net for common 2,293,000 47,000Earned per share before 
special items $1.28 $1.00
Earned per share after 
special items 1.45 .20
Dividend on common 1.20 .30
Interest charges earned 4.6 /H11003 1.8/H11003
aThere were warrants to buy 1,600,000 or more shares at various prices. A listed
issue sold at 301⁄2per warrant.
bAs a realty trust, this enterprise was not subjected to Federal income tax in 1968.The next year it became clear that all was not well in the Equities
picture, and the price fell to 91⁄2. When the report for March 1970
appeared the shareholders must have felt shell-shocked as they
read that the enterprise had sustained a net loss of $13,200,000, or$5.17 per share—virtually wiping out their former slim equity.(This disastrous figure included a reserve of $8,800,000 for futurelosses on investments.) Nonetheless the directors had bravely (?)declared an extra dividend of 5 cents right after the close of the fis-cal year. But more trouble was in sight. The company’s auditorsrefused to certify the financial statements for 1969–70, and theshares were suspended from trading on the American StockExchange. In the over-the-counter market the bid price droppedbelow $2 per share.*
Real Estate Investment Trust shares had typical price fluctuations
after 1969. The low in 1970 was 16
1⁄2, with a recovery to 265⁄6in early
1971. The latest reported earnings were $1.50 per share, and the stock
was selling moderately above its 1970 book value of $21.60. The issue
may have been somewhat overpriced at its record high in 1968, but theshareholders have been honestly and well served by their trustees.
The Real Estate Equities story is a different and a sorry one.
Pair 2: Air Products and Chemicals (industrial and medical
gases, etc.) and Air Reduction Co. (industrial gases andequipment; chemicals)
Even more than our first pair, these two resemble each other in
both name and line of business. The comparison they invite is thus
of the conventional type in security analysis, while most of ourother pairs are more heteroclite in nature.† “Products” is a newer450 The Intelligent Investor
* Realty Equities was delisted from the American Stock Exchange in Sep-
tember 1973. In 1974, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission sued
Realty Equities’ accountants for fraud. Realty Equities’ founder, Morris Karp,
later pleaded guilty to one count of grand larceny. In 1974–1975, theoverindebtedness that Graham criticizes led to a financial crisis among largebanks, including Chase Manhattan, that had lent heavily to the most aggres-sive realty trusts.† “Heteroclite” is a technical term from classical Greek that Graham uses tomean abnormal or unusual.company than “Reduction,” and in 1969 had less than half the
other’s volume.* Nonetheless its equity issues sold for 25% more in
the aggregate than Air Reduction’s stock. As Table 18-2 shows, the
reason can be found both in Air Reduction’s greater profitabilityand in its stronger growth record. We find here the typical conse-quences of a better showing of “quality.” Air Products sold at 16
1⁄2
times its latest earnings against only 9.1 times for Air Reduction.Also Air Products sold well above its asset backing, while Air
Reduction could be bought at only 75% of its book value.† Air
Reduction paid a more liberal dividend; but this may be deemed toreflect the greater desirability for Air Products to retain its earn-
ings. Also, Air Reduction had a more comfortable working-capitalposition. (On this point we may remark that a profitable companycan always put its current position in shape by some form of per-manent financing. But by our standards Air Products was some-what overbonded.)
If the analyst were called on to choose between the two compa-
nies he would have no difficulty in concluding that the prospects
of Air Products looked more promising than those of Air Reduc-tion. But did this make Air Products more attractive at its consider-
ably higher relative price? We doubt whether this question can be
answered in a definitive fashion. In general Wall Street sets “qual-ity” above “quantity” in its thinking, and probably the majority of
security analysts would opt for the “better” but dearer Air Prod-
ucts as against the “poorer” but cheaper Air Reduction. Whetherthis preference is to prove right or wrong is more likely to depend
on the unpredictable future than on any demonstrable investment
principle. In this instance, Air Reduction appears to belong to thegroup of important companies in the low-multiplier class. If, as the
studies referred to above†† would seem to indicate, that group as aA Comparison of Eight Pairs of Companies 451
* By “volume, ” Graham is referring to sales or revenues—the total dollar
amount of each company’s business.
† “Asset backing” and book value are synonyms. In Table 18-2, the relation-
ship of price to asset or book value can be seen by dividing the first line(“Price, December 31, 1969”) by “Book value per share. ”†† Graham is citing his research on value stocks, which he discusses in Chap-ter 15 (see p. 389). Since Graham completed his studies, a vast body ofscholarly work has confirmed that value stocks outperform (cont’d on p. 453)452 The Intelligent Investor
TABLE 18-2. Pair 2.
Air Products Air Reduction
& Chemicals 1969 1969
Price, December 31, 1969 391⁄2 163⁄8
Number of shares of common 5,832,000a11,279,000
Market value of common $231,000,000 $185,000,000
Debt 113,000,000 179,000,000
Total capitalization at market 344,000,000 364,000,000
Book value per share $22.89 $21.91Sales $221,500,000 $487,600,000
Net income 13,639,000 20,326,000
Earned per share, 1969 $2.40 $1.80Earned per share, 1964 1.51 1.51
Earned per share, 1959 .52 1.95
Current dividend rate .20 .80Dividend since 1954 1917Ratios:
Price/earnings 16.5 /H11003 9.1/H11003
Price/book value 165.0% 75.0%Dividend yield 0.5% 4.9%
Net/sales 6.2% 4.25%
Earnings/book value 11.0% 8.2%Current assets/liabilities 1.53 /H11003 3.77/H11003
Working capital/debt .32 /H11003 .85/H11003
Growth in per-share earnings
1969 versus 1964 +59% +19%
1969 versus 1959 +362% decrease
aAssuming conversion of preferred stock.whole is likely to give a better account of itself than the high-
multiplier stocks, then Air Reduction should logically be given the
preference—but only as part of a diversified operation. (Also, a
thorough-going study of the individual companies could lead theanalyst to the opposite conclusion; but that would have to be forreasons beyond those already reflected in the past showing.)
Sequel : Air Products stood up better than Air Reduction in theA Comparison of Eight Pairs of Companies 453
1970 break, with a decline of 16% against 24%. However, Reduction
made a better comeback in early 1971, rising to 50% above its 1969
close, against 30% for Products. In this case the low-multiplier
issue scored the advantage—for the time being, at least.*
Pair 3: American Home Products Co. (drugs, cosmetics,
household products, candy) and American Hospital SupplyCo. (distributor and manufacturer of hospital supplies andequipment)
These were two “billion-dollar good-will” companies at the end
of 1969, representing different segments of the rapidly growing
and immensely profitable “health industry.” We shall refer to them
as Home and Hospital, respectively. Selected data on both are pre-sented in Table 18-3. They had the following favorable points in
common: excellent growth, with no setbacks since 1958 (i.e., 100%earnings stability); and strong financial condition. The growth rate
of Hospital up to the end of 1969 was considerably higher than
Home’s. On the other hand, Home enjoyed substantially betterprofitability on both sales and capital.† (In fact, the relatively low
rate of Hospital’s earnings on its capital in 1969—only 9.7%—raises
the intriguing question whether the business then was in fact a
highly profitable one, despite its remarkable past growth rate insales and earnings.)
When comparative price is taken into account, Home offered
(cont’d from p. 451) growth stocks over long periods. (Much of the best
research in modern finance simply provides independent confirmation of
what Graham demonstrated decades ago.) See, for instance, James L.
Davis, Eugene F. Fama, and Kenneth R. French, “Characteristics, Covari-ances, and Average Returns: 1929–1997 , ” at http://papers.ssrn.com.
* Air Products and Chemicals, Inc., still exists as a publicly-traded stock and
is included in the Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index. Air Reduction Co.became a wholly-owned subsidiary of The BOC Group (then known asBritish Oxygen) in 1978.† You can determine profitability, as measured by return on sales and returnon capital, by referring to the “Ratios” section of Table 18-3. “Net/sales” mea-sures return on sales; “Earnings/book value” measures return on capital.much more for the money in terms of current (or past) earnings
and dividends. The very low book value of Home illustrates a basic
ambiguity or contradiction in common-stock analysis. On the one
hand, it means that the company is earning a high return on itscapital—which in general is a sign of strength and prosperity. On
the other, it means that the investor at the current price would be
especially vulnerable to any important adverse change in thecompany’s earnings situation. Since Hospital was selling at overfour times its book value in 1969, this cautionary remark must beapplied to both companies.454 The Intelligent Investor
TABLE 18-3. Pair 3.
American Home American Hospital
Products 1969 Supply 1969
Price, December 31, 1969 72 451⁄8
Number of shares of common 52,300,000 33,600,000
Market value of common $3,800,000,000 $1,516,000,000Debt 11,000,000 18,000,000
Total capitalization at market 3,811,000,000 1,534,000,000
Book value per share $5.73 $7.84Sales $1,193,000,000 $446,000,000
Net income 123,300,000 25,000,000
Earned per share, 1969 $2.32 $.77Earned per share, 1964 1.37 .31Earned per share, 1959 .92 .15
Current dividend rate 1.40 .24
Dividends since 1919 1947Ratios:
Price/earnings 31.0 /H11003 58.5/H11003
Price/book value 1250.0% 575.0%Dividend yield 1.9% 0.55%
Net/sales 10.7% 5.6%
Earnings/book value 41.0% 9.5%Current assets/liabilities 2.6 /H11003 4.5/H11003
Growth in per-share earnings
1969 versus 1964 +75% +142%
1969 versus 1959 +161% +405%CONCLUSIONS : Our clear-cut view would be that both companies
were too “rich” at their current prices to be considered by the
investor who decides to follow our ideas of conservative selection.
This does not mean that the companies were lacking in promise.The trouble is, rather, that their price contained too much “prom-ise” and not enough actual performance. For the two enterprisescombined, the 1969 price reflected almost $5 billion of good-willvaluation. How many years of excellent future earnings would it
take to “realize” that good-will factor in the form of dividends or
tangible assets?
S
HORT -TERM SEQUEL : At the end of 1969 the market evidently
thought more highly of the earnings prospects of Hospital than ofHome, since it gave the former almost twice the multiplier of the
latter. As it happened the favored issue showed a microscopic
decline in earnings in 1970, while Home turned in a respectable 8%
gain. The market price of Hospital reacted significantly to this one-year disappointment. It sold at 32 in February 1971—a loss ofabout 30% from its 1969 close—while Home was quoted slightlyabove its corresponding level.*
Pair 4: H & R Block, Inc. (income-tax service) and Blue Bell,
Inc., (manufacturers of work clothes, uniforms, etc.)
These companies rub shoulders as relative newcomers to the
New York Stock Exchange, where they represent two very different
genres of success stories. Blue Bell came up the hard way in ahighly competitive industry, in which eventually it became thelargest factor. Its earnings have fluctuated somewhat with industry
conditions, but their growth since 1965 has been impressive. The
company’s operations go back to 1916 and its continuous dividendrecord to 1923. At the end of 1969 the stock market showed no
enthusiasm for the issue, giving it a price/earnings ratio of only 11,
against about 17 for the S & P composite index.
By contrast, the rise of H & R Block has been meteoric. Its firstA Comparison of Eight Pairs of Companies 455
* American Home Products Co. is now known as Wyeth; the stock is
included in the Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index. American Hospital Sup-ply Co. was acquired by Baxter Healthcare Corp. in 1985.published figures date only to 1961, in which year it earned $83,000
on revenues of $610,000. But eight years later, on our comparison
date, its revenues had soared to $53.6 million and its net to $6.3
million. At that time the stock market’s attitude toward this fineperformer appeared nothing less than ecstatic. The price of 55 atthe close of 1969 was more than 100 times the last reported 12-months’ earnings—which of course were the largest to date. Theaggregate market value of $300 million for the stock issue was
nearly 30 times the tangible assets behind the shares.* This was
almost unheard of in the annals of serious stock-market valuations.(At that time IBM was selling at about 9 times and Xerox at 11
times book value.)
Our Table 18-4 sets forth in dollar figures and in ratios the
extraordinary discrepancy in the comparative valuations of Block
and Blue Bell. True, Block showed twice the profitability of BlueBell per dollar of capital, and its percentage growth in earningsover the past five years (from practically nothing) was much
higher. But as a stock enterprise Blue Bell was selling for less than
one-third the total value of Block, although Blue Bell was doingfour times as much business, earning 2
1⁄2times as much for its
stock, had 51⁄2times as much in tangible investment, and gave nine
times the dividend yield on the price.
INDICATED CONCLUSIONS : An experienced analyst would have
conceded great momentum to Block, implying excellent prospectsfor future growth. He might have had some qualms about the dan-gers of serious competition in the income-tax-service field, lured bythe handsome return on capital realized by Block.
1But mindful of
the continued success of such outstanding companies as Avon
Products in highly competitive areas, he would have hesitated to
predict a speedy flattening out of the Block growth curve. His chief456 The Intelligent Investor
* “Nearly 30 times” is reflected in the entry of 2920% under “Price/book
value” in the Ratios section of Table 18-4. Graham would have shaken his
head in astonishment during late 1999 and early 2000, when many high-
tech companies sold for hundreds of times their asset value (see the com-mentary on this chapter). Talk about “almost unheard of in the annals ofserious stock-market valuations”! H & R Block remains a publicly-tradedcompany, while Blue Bell was taken private in 1984 at $47 .50 per share.concern would be simply whether the $300 million valuation for
the company had not already fully valued and perhaps overvalued
all that one could reasonably expect from this excellent business.
By contrast the analyst should have had little difficulty in recom-mending Blue Bell as a fine company, quite conservatively priced.
S
EQUEL TO MARCH 1971. The 1970 near-panic lopped one-quarter
off the price of Blue Bell and about one-third from that of Block.Both then joined in the extraordinary recovery of the general mar-A Comparison of Eight Pairs of Companies 457
TABLE 18-4. Pair 4.
H & R Block Blue Bell 
1969 1969
Price, December 31, 1969 55 493⁄4
Number of shares of common 5,426,000 1,802,000a
Market value of common $298,000,000 $89,500,000
Debt — 17,500,000Total capitalization at market 298,000,000 107,000,000
Book value per share $1.89 $34.54
Sales $53,600,000 $202,700,000Net income 6,380,000 7,920,000
Earned per share, 1969 $.51 (October) $4.47
Earned per share, 1964 .07 2.64Earned per share, 1959 — 1.80Current dividend rate .24 1.80
Dividends since 1962 1923
Ratios:
Price/earnings 108.0 /H11003 11.2 /H11003
Price/book value 2920 % 142 %Dividend yield 0.4 % 3.6 %Net/sales 11.9 % 3.9 %
Earnings/book value 27 % 12.8 %
Current assets/liabilities 3.2 /H11003 2.4/H11003
Working capital/debt no debt 3.75 /H11003
Growth in per-share earnings
1969 versus 1964 +630% +68%
1969 versus 1959 — +148%
aAssuming conversion of preferred stock.ket. The price of Block rose to 75 in February 1971, but Blue Bell
advanced considerably more—to the equivalent of 109 (after a
three-for-two split). Clearly Blue Bell proved a better buy than
Block as of the end of 1969. But the fact that Block was able toadvance some 35% from that apparently inflated value indicateshow wary analysts and investors must be to sell good companiesshort—either by word or deed—no matter how high the quotationmay seem.*
Pair 5: International Flavors & Fragrances (flavors, etc., for
other businesses) and International Harvester Co. (truckmanufacturer, farm machinery, construction machinery)
This comparison should carry more than one surprise. Everyone
knows of International Harvester, one of the 30 giants in the Dow
Jones Industrial Average.† How many of our readers have even
heard of International Flavors & Fragrances, next-door neighbor toHarvester on the New York Stock Exchange list? Yet, mirabile dictu,
IFF was actually selling at the end of 1969 for a higher aggregatemarket value than Harvester—$747 million versus $710 million.This is the more amazing when one reflects that Harvester had 17
times the stock capital of Flavors and 27 times the annual sales. In458 The Intelligent Investor
* Graham is alerting readers to a form of the “gambler’s fallacy, ” in which
investors believe that an overvalued stock must drop in price purely because
it is overvalued. Just as a coin does not become more likely to turn up heads
after landing on tails for nine times in a row, so an overvalued stock (or stockmarket!) can stay overvalued for a surprisingly long time. That makes short-
selling, or betting that stocks will drop, too risky for mere mortals.
† International Harvester was the heir to McCormick Harvesting MachineCo., the manufacturer of the McCormick reaper that helped make the mid-
western states the “breadbasket of the world. ” But International Harvester
fell on hard times in the 1970s and, in 1985, sold its farm-equipment busi-ness to Tenneco. After changing its name to Navistar, the remaining com-pany was booted from the Dow in 1991 (although it remains a member ofthe S & P 500 index). International Flavors & Fragrances, also a constituentof the S & P 500, had a total stock-market value of $3 billion in early 2003,versus $1.6 billion for Navistar.fact, only three years before, the net earnings of Harvester had been
larger than the 1969 sales of Flavors! How did these extraordinary
disparities develop? The answer lies in the two magic words: prof-
itability and growth. Flavors made a remarkable showing in bothcategories, while Harvester left everything to be desired.
The story is told in Table 18-5. Here we find Flavors with a sen-
sational profit of 14.3% of sales (before income tax the figure was23%), compared with a mere 2.6% for Harvester. Similarly, FlavorsA Comparison of Eight Pairs of Companies 459
TABLE 18-5. Pair 5.
International Flavors International 
& Fragrances 1969 Harvester 1969
Price, December 31, 1969 651⁄2 243⁄4
Number of shares of common 11,400,000 27,329,000
Market value of common $747,000,000 $710,000,000Debt 4,000,000 313,000,000
Total capitalization at market 751,000,000 1,023,000,000
Book value per share $6.29 $41.70Sales $94,200,000 $2,652,000,000
Net income 13,540,000 63,800,000
Earned per share, 1969 $1.19 $2.30Earned per share, 1964 .62 3.39Earned per share, 1959 .28 2.83
Current dividend rate .50 1.80
Dividends since 1956 1910Ratios:
Price/earnings 55.0 /H11003 10.7/H11003
Price/book value 1050.0% 59.0%Dividend yield 0.9% 7.3%
Net/sales 14.3% 2.6%
Earnings/book value 19.7% 5.5%Current assets/liabilities 3.7 /H11003 2.0/H11003
Working capital/debt large 1.7 /H11003
Interest earned — (before tax) 3.9 /H11003
Growth in per-share earnings
1969 versus 1964 +93% +9%
1969 versus 1959 +326% +39%had earned 19.7% on its stock capital against an inadequate 5.5%
earned by Harvester. In five years the net earnings of Flavors had
nearly doubled, while those of Harvester practically stood still.
Between 1969 and 1959 the comparison makes similar reading.These differences in performance produced a typical stock-marketdivergence in valuation. Flavors sold in 1969 at 55 times its lastreported earnings, and Harvester at only 10.7 times. Correspond-ingly, Flavors was valued at 10.4 times its book value, while Har-
vester was selling at a 41% discount from its net worth.
C
OMMENT AND CONCLUSIONS : The first thing to remark is that the
market success of Flavors was based entirely on the development
of its central business, and involved none of the corporate wheel-
ing and dealing, acquisition programs, top-heavy capitalization
structures, and other familiar Wall Street practices of recent years.The company has stuck to its extremely profitable knitting, and
that is virtually its whole story. The record of Harvester raises anentirely different set of questions, but these too have nothing to do
with “high finance.” Why have so many great companies become
relatively unprofitable even during many years of general prosper-ity? What is the advantage of doing more than $2
1⁄2billion of busi-
ness if the enterprise cannot earn enough to justify the
shareholders’ investment? It is not for us to prescribe the solution
of this problem. But we insist that not only management but the
rank and file of shareholders should be conscious that the problemexists and that it calls for the best brains and the best efforts possi-
ble to deal with it.* From the standpoint of common-stock selec-
tion, neither issue would have met our standards of sound,reasonably attractive, and moderately priced investment. Flavors
was a typical brilliantly successful but lavishly valued company;460 The Intelligent Investor
* For more of Graham’s thoughts on shareholder activism, see the commen-
tary on Chapter 19. In criticizing Harvester for its refusal to maximize share-
holder value, Graham uncannily anticipated the behavior of the company’s
future management. In 2001, a majority of shareholders voted to removeNavistar’s restrictions against outside takeover bids—but the board of direc-tors simply refused to implement the shareholders’ wishes. It’s remarkablethat an antidemocratic tendency in the culture of some companies canendure for decades.Harvester’s showing was too mediocre to make it really attractive
even at its discount price. (Undoubtedly there were better values
available in the reasonably priced class.)
SEQUEL TO 1971: The low price of Harvester at the end of 1969
protected it from a large further decline in the bad break of 1970. It
lost only 10% more. Flavors proved more vulnerable and declinedto 45, a loss of 30%. In the subsequent recovery both advanced,well above their 1969 close, but Harvester soon fell back to the 25level.
Pair 6: McGraw Edison (public utility and equipment;
housewares) McGraw-Hill, Inc. (books, films, instruction
systems; magazine and newspaper publishers; informationservices)
This pair with so similar names—which at times we shall call
Edison and Hill—are two large and successful enterprises in vastly
different fields. We have chosen December 31, 1968, as the date of
our comparison, developed in Table 18-6. The issues were selling atabout the same price, but because of Hill’s larger capitalization it
was valued at about twice the total figure of the other. This differ-
ence should appear somewhat surprising, since Edison had about50% higher sales and one-quarter larger net earnings. As a result,
we find that the key ratio—the multiplier of earnings—was more
than twice as great for Hill as for Edison. This phenomenon seemsexplicable chiefly by the persistence of a strong enthusiasm andpartiality exhibited by the market toward shares of book-publishing companies, several of which had been introduced topublic trading in the later 1960s.*
Actually, by the end of 1968 it was evident that this enthusiasm
had been overdone. The Hill shares had sold at 56 in 1967, morethan 40 times the just-reported record earnings for 1966. But a small
decline had appeared in 1967 and a further decline in 1968. Thus the
current high multiplier of 35 was being applied to a company thatA Comparison of Eight Pairs of Companies 461
* McGraw-Hill remains a publicly-traded company that owns, among other
operations, BusinessWeek magazine and Standard & Poor’s Corp.
McGraw–Edison is now a division of Cooper Industries.had already shown two years of receding profits. Nonetheless the
stock was still valued at more than eight times its tangible asset
backing, indicating a good-will component of not far from a billion
dollars! Thus the price seemed to illustrate—in Dr. Johnson’sfamous phrase—“The triumph of hope over experience.”
By contrast, McGraw Edison seemed quoted at a reasonable
price in relation to the (high) general market level and to thecompany’s overall performance and financial position.462 The Intelligent Investor
TABLE 18-6. Pair 6.
McGraw McGraw-Hill
Edison 1968 1968
Price, December 31, 1968 375⁄8 393⁄4
Number of shares of common 13,717,000 24,200,000a
Market value of common $527,000,000 $962,000,000
Debt 6,000,000 53,000,000Total capitalization at market 533,000,000 1,015,000,000
Book value per share $20.53 $5.00
Sales $568,600,000 $398,300,000Net income 33,400,000 26,200,000
Earned per share, 1968 $2.44 $1.13
Earned per share, 1963 1.20 .66Earned per share, 1958 1.02 .46Current dividend rate 1.40 .70
Dividends since 1934 1937
Ratios:
Price/earnings 15.5 /H11003 35.0/H11003
Price/book value 183.0% 795.0%Dividend yield 3.7% 1.8%Net/sales 5.8% 6.6%
Earnings/book value 11.8% 22.6%
Current assets/liabilities 3.95 /H11003 1.75/H11003
Working capital/debt large 1.75 /H11003
Growth in per-share earnings
1968 versus 1963 +104% +71%
1968 versus 1958 +139% +146%
aAssuming conversion of preferred stock.SEQUEL TO EARLY 1971: The decline of McGraw-Hill’s earnings
continued through 1969 and 1970, dropping to $1.02 and then to
$.82 per share. In the May 1970 debacle its price suffered a devas-
tating break to 10—less than a fifth of the figure two years before. Ithad a good recovery thereafter, but the high of 24 in May 1971 wasstill only 60% of the 1968 closing price. McGraw Edison gave a bet-ter account of itself—declining to 22 in 1970 and recovering fully to41
1⁄2in May 1971.*
McGraw-Hill continues to be a strong and prosperous company.
But its price history exemplifies—as do so many other cases—the
speculative hazards in such stocks created by Wall Street throughits undisciplined waves of optimism and pessimism.
Pair 7: National General Corp. (a large conglomerate) and
National Presto Industries (diverse electric appliances,ordnance)
These two companies invite comparison chiefly because they
are so different. Let us call them “General” and “Presto.” We have
selected the end of 1968 for our study, because the write-offs taken
by General in 1969 made the figures for that year too ambiguous.The full flavor of General’s far-flung activities could not be savored
the year before, but it was already conglomerate enough for
anyone’s taste. The condensed description in the Stock Guide read
“Nation-wide theatre chain; motion picture and TV production,
savings and loan assn., book publishing.” To which could be
added, then or later, “insurance, investment banking, records,music publishing, computerized services, real estate—and 35% ofPerformance Systems Inc. (name recently changed from MinniePearl’s Chicken System Inc.).” Presto had also followed a diversifi-cation program, but in comparison with General it was modest
indeed. Starting as the leading maker of pressure cookers, it had
branched out into various other household and electric appliances.Quite differently, also, it took on a number of ordnance contracts
for the U.S. government.A Comparison of Eight Pairs of Companies 463
* In “the May 1970 debacle” that Graham refers to, the U.S. stock market
lost 5.5%. From the end of March to the end of June 1970, the S & P 500index lost 19% of its value, one of the worst three-month returns on record.Our Table 18-7 summarizes the showing of the companies at the
end of 1968. The capital structure of Presto was as simple as it
could be—nothing but 1,478,000 shares of common stock, selling in
the market for $58 million. Contrastingly, General had more thantwice as many shares of common, plus an issue of convertible pre-ferred, plus three issues of stock warrants calling for a hugeamount of common, plus a towering convertible bond issue (justgiven in exchange for stock of an insurance company), plus a
goodly sum of nonconvertible bonds. All this added up to a market
capitalization of $534 million, not counting an impending issue ofconvertible bonds, and $750 million, including such issue. Despite
National General’s enormously greater capitalization, it had actu-
ally done considerably less gross business than Presto in their fiscalyears, and it had shown only 75% of Presto’s net income.
The determination of the true market value of General’s common-
stock capitalization presents an interesting problem for securityanalysts and has important implications for anyone interested in
the stock on any basis more serious than outright gambling. The
relatively small $4
1⁄2convertible preferred can be readily taken care
of by assuming its conversion into common, when the latter sells at
a suitable market level. This we have done in Table 18-7. But the
warrants require different treatment. In calculating the “full dilu-tion” basis the company assumes exercise of all the warrants, and
the application of the proceeds to the retirement of debt, plus use of
the balance to buy in common at the market. These assumptionsactually produced virtually no effect on the earnings per share in
calendar 1968—which were reported as $1.51 both before and after
allowance for dilution. We consider this treatment illogical andunrealistic. As we see it, the warrants represent a part of the “com-
mon-stock package” and their market value is part of the “effectivemarket value” of the common-stock part of the capital. (See our
discussion of this point on p. 415 above.) This simple technique of
adding the market price of the warrants to that of the common has
a radical effect on the showing of National General at the end of1968, as appears from the calculation in Table 18-7. In fact the “truemarket price” of the common stock turns out to be more than twicethe quoted figure. Hence the true multiplier of the 1968 earnings ismore than doubled—to the inherently absurd figure of 69 times.The total market value of the “common-stock equivalents” then464 The Intelligent InvestorA Comparison of Eight Pairs of Companies 465
TABLE 18-7. Pair 7.
National General National Presto 
1968 Industries 1968
Price, December 31, 1968 441⁄4 385⁄8
Number of shares of common 4,330,000a1,478,000
Market value of common $192,000,000 $58,000,000
Add market value of 3
issues of warrants 221,000,000 —
Total value of common and warrants 413,000,000 —Senior issues 121,000,000 —
Total capitalization at market 534,000,000 58,000,000
Market price of common stock 
adjusted for warrants 98 —
Book value of common $31.50 $26.30
Sales and revenues $117,600,000 $152,200,000
Net income 6,121,000 8,206,000Earned per share, 1968 $1.42 (December) $5.61
Earned per share, 1963 .96 (September) 1.03
Earned per share, 1958 .48 (September) .77Current dividend rate .20 .80
Dividends since 1964 1945
Ratios:
Price/earnings 69.0 /H11003
b6.9/H11003
Price/book value 310.0% 142.0%Dividend yield .5% 2.4%
Net/sales 5.5% 5.4%
Earnings/book value 4.5% 21.4%Current assets/liabilities 1.63 /H11003 3.40/H11003
Working capital/debt .21 /H11003 no debt
Growth in per-share earnings
1968 versus 1963 +48% +450%
1968 versus 1960 +195% +630%
aAssuming conversion of preferred stock.
bAdjusted for market price of warrants.becomes $413 million, which is over three times the tangible assets
shown therefor.
These figures appear the more anomalous when comparison is
made with those of Presto. One is moved to ask how could Prestopossibly be valued at only 6.9 times its current earnings when themultiplier for General was nearly 10 times as great. All the ratios ofPresto are quite satisfactory—the growth figure suspiciously so, infact. By that we mean that the company was undoubtedly benefit-
ing considerably from its war work, and the shareholders should
be prepared for some falling off in profits under peacetime condi-tions. But, on balance, Presto met all the requirements of a sound
and reasonably priced investment, while General had all the ear-
marks of a typical “conglomerate” of the late 1960s vintage, full ofcorporate gadgets and grandiose gestures, but lacking in substan-tial values behind the market quotations.
S
EQUEL : General continued its diversification policy in 1969, with
some increase in its debt. But it took a whopping write-off of mil-
lions, chiefly in the value of its investment in the Minnie Pearl
Chicken deal. The final figures showed a loss of $72 million beforetax credit and $46.4 million after tax credit. The price of the shares
fell to 16
1⁄2in 1969 and as low as 9 in 1970 (only 15% of its 1968 high
of 60). Earnings for 1970 were reported as $2.33 per share diluted,
and the price recovered to 281⁄2in 1971. National Presto increased its
per-share earnings somewhat in both 1969 and 1970, marking 10years of uninterrupted growth of profits. Nonetheless its pricedeclined to 21
1⁄2in the 1970 debacle. This was an interesting figure,
since it was less than four times the last reported earnings, and lessthan the net current assets available for the stock at the time. Late in
1971 we find the price of National Presto 60% higher, at 34, but the
ratios are still startling. The enlarged working capital is still aboutequal to the current price, which in turn is only 5
1⁄2times the last
reported earnings. If the investor could now find ten such issues, for
diversification, he could be confident of satisfactory results.*466 The Intelligent Investor
* National Presto remains a publicly-traded company. National General was
acquired in 1974 by another controversial conglomerate, American FinancialGroup, which at various times has had interests in cable television, banking,real estate, mutual funds, insurance, and bananas. AFG is also the final restingplace of some of the assets of Penn Central Corp. (see Chapter 17).Pair 8: Whiting Corp. (materials-handling equipment) and
Willcox & Gibbs (small conglomerate)
This pair are close but not touching neighbors on the American
Stock Exchange list. The comparison—set forth in Table 18-8A—
makes one wonder if Wall Street is a rational institution. The com-pany with smaller sales and earnings, and with half the tangibleA Comparison of Eight Pairs of Companies 467
Table 18-8A. Pair 8.
Whiting Willcox & Gibbs
1969 1969
Price, December 31, 1969 173⁄4 151⁄2
Number of shares of common 570,000 2,381,000
Market value of common $10,200,000 $36,900,000
Debt 1,000,000 5,900,000Preferred stock — 1,800,000Total capitalization at market $11,200,000 $44,600,000Book value per share $25.39 $3.29
Sales $42,200,000 $29,000,000 
(October) (December)
Net income before special item 1,091,000 347,000
Net income after special item 1,091,000 def. 1,639,000
Earned per share, 1969 $1.91 (October) $.08
a
Earned per share, 1964 1.90 (April) .13
Earned per share, 1959 .42 (April) .13
Current dividend rate 1.50 —Dividends since 1954 (none since 1957)Ratios:
Price/earnings 9.3 /H11003 very large
Price/book value 70.0% 470.0%Dividend yield 8.4% —Net/sales 3.2% 0.1%
a
Earnings/book value 7.5% 2.4%a
Current assets/liabilities 3.0 /H11003 1.55/H11003
Working capital/debt 9.0 /H11003 3.6/H11003
Growth in per-share earnings
1969 versus 1964 even decrease
1969 versus 1959 +354% decrease
aBefore special charge. def.:deficit.assets for the common, sold at about four times the aggregate value
of the other. The higher-valued company was about to report a
large loss after special charges; it had not paid a dividend in thir-
teen years. The other had a long record of satisfactory earnings,had paid continuous dividends since 1936, and was currently
returning one of the highest dividend yields in the entire common-
stock list. To indicate more vividly the disparity in the performanceof the two companies we append, in Table 18-8B, the earnings and
price record for 1961–1970.
The history of the two companies throws an interesting light on
the development of medium-sized businesses in this country, incontrast with much larger-sized companies that have mainly
appeared in these pages. Whiting was incorporated in 1896, andthus goes back at least 75 years. It seems to have kept pretty faith-fully to its materials-handling business and has done quite wellwith it over the decades. Willcox & Gibbs goes back even farther—to 1866—and was long known in its industry as a prominent maker468 The Intelligent Investor
TABLE 18-8B. Ten-Year Price and Earnings Record of 
Whiting and Willcox & Gibbs
Whiting Corp. Willcox & Gibbs
Earned Price Earned Price 
Year Per ShareaRange Per Share Range
1970 $1.81 221⁄2–161⁄4 $.34 181⁄2–41⁄2
1969 2.63 37–173⁄4 .05 205⁄8–83⁄4
1968 3.63 431⁄8–281⁄4 .35 201⁄8–81⁄3
1967 3.01 361⁄2–25 .47 11–43⁄4
1966 2.49 301⁄4–191⁄4 .41 8–33⁄4
1965 1.90 20–18 .32 103⁄8–61⁄8
1964 1.53 14–8 .20 91⁄2–41⁄2
1963 .88 15–9 .13 14–43⁄4
1962 .46 10–61⁄2 .04 193⁄4–81⁄4
1961 .42 121⁄2–73⁄4 .03 191⁄2–101⁄2
aYear ended following April 30.of industrial sewing machines. During the past decade it adopted a
policy of diversification in what seems a rather outlandish form.
For on the one hand it has an extraordinarily large number of sub-
sidiary companies (at least 24), making an astonishing variety ofproducts, but on the other hand the entire conglomeration adds upto mighty small potatoes by usual Wall Street standards.
The earnings developments in Whiting are rather characteristic
of our business concerns. The figures show steady and rather spec-
tacular growth from 41 cents a share in 1960 to $3.63 in 1968. But
they carried no assurance that such growth must continue indefi-nitely. The subsequent decline to only $1.77 for the 12 months
ended January 1971 may have reflected nothing more than the
slowing down of the general economy. But the stock price reactedin severe fashion, falling about 60% from its 1968 high (43
1⁄2) to the
close of 1969. Our analysis would indicate that the shares repre-
sented a sound and attractive secondary-issue investment—suit-
able for the enterprising investor as part of a group of suchcommitments.
S
EQUEL : Willcox & Gibbs showed a small operating loss for 1970.
Its price declined drastically to a low of 41⁄2, recovering in typical
fashion to 91⁄2in February 1971. It would be hard to justify that price
statistically. Whiting had a relatively small decline, to 163⁄4in 1970.
(At that price it was selling at just about the current assets aloneavailable for the shares). Its earnings held at $1.85 per share to July
1971. In early 1971 the price advanced to 24
1⁄2, which seemed rea-
sonable enough but no longer a “bargain” by our standards.*
General Observations
The issues used in these comparisons were selected with some
malice aforethought, and thus they cannot be said to present a ran-dom cross-section of the common-stock list. Also they are limited
to the industrial section, and the important areas of public utilities,A Comparison of Eight Pairs of Companies 469
* Whiting Corp. ended up a subsidiary of Wheelabrator-Frye, but was taken
private in 1983. Willcox & Gibbs is now owned by Group Rexel, an electri-cal-equipment manufacturer that is a division of Pinault-Printemps-RedouteGroup of France. Rexel’s shares trade on the Paris Stock Exchange.transportation companies, and financial enterprises do not appear.
But they vary sufficiently in size, lines of business, and qualitative
and quantitative aspects to convey a fair idea of the choices con-
fronting an investor in common stocks.
The relationship between price and indicated value has also dif-
fered greatly from one case to another. For the most part the compa-nies with better growth records and higher profitability have sold athigher multipliers of current earnings—which is logical enough in470 The Intelligent Investor
TABLE 18-9. Some Price Fluctuations of Sixteen Common
Stocks (Adjusted for Stock Splits Through 1970)
Price Range Decline Decline 
1936–1970 1961 to 1962 1968–69 to 1970
Air Products & Chemicals 13⁄8–49 431⁄4–215⁄8 49–313⁄8
Air Reduction 93⁄8–453⁄4 221⁄2–12 37–16
American Home Products7⁄8–72 443⁄4–22 72–511⁄8
American Hospital Supply3⁄4–471⁄2 115⁄8–53⁄4 471⁄2–263⁄4a
H & R Block1⁄4–681⁄2 –6 81⁄2–371⁄8a
Blue Bell 83⁄4–55 25–16 443⁄4–261⁄2
International Flavors 
& Fragrances 43⁄4–671⁄2 8–41⁄2 663⁄8–447⁄8
International Harvester 61⁄4–53 283⁄4–191⁄4 383⁄4–22
McGraw Edison 11⁄4–461⁄4 243⁄8–14b443⁄4–215⁄8
McGraw-Hill1⁄8–561⁄2 211⁄2–91⁄8 545⁄8–101⁄4
National General 35⁄8–601⁄2 147⁄8–43⁄4b601⁄2–9
National Presto Industries1⁄2–45 205⁄8–81⁄4 45–211⁄2
Real Estate Investment 
Trust 101⁄2–301⁄4 251⁄8–151⁄4 301⁄4–163⁄8
Realty Equities of N.Y. 33⁄4–473⁄4 67⁄8–41⁄2 373⁄4–2
Whiting 27⁄8–433⁄8 121⁄2–61⁄2 433⁄8–163⁄4
Willcox & Gibbs 4–205⁄8 191⁄2–81⁄4 203⁄8–41⁄2
aHigh and low both in 1970.
b1959 to 1960.general. Whether the specific differentials in price/earnings ratios
are “justified” by the facts—or will be vindicated by future devel-
opments—cannot be answered with confidence. On the other hand
we do have quite a few instances here in which a worthwhile judg-ment can be reached. These include virtually all the cases wherethere has been great market activity in companies of questionableunderlying soundness. Such stocks not only were speculative—which means inherently risky—but a good deal of the time they
were and are obviously overvalued. Other issues appeared to be
worth more than their price, being affected by the opposite sort ofmarket attitude—which we might call “underspeculation”—or by
undue pessimism because of a shrinkage in earnings.
In Table 18-9 we provide some data on the price fluctuations of
the issues covered in this chapter. Most of them had large declines
between 1961 and 1962, as well as from 1969 to 1970. Clearly theinvestor must be prepared for this type of adverse market move-ment in future stock markets. In Table 18-10 we show year-to-yearA Comparison of Eight Pairs of Companies 471
TABLE 18-10. Large Year-to-Year Fluctuations of 
McGraw-Hill, 1958–1971a
From To Advances Declines
1958 1959 39–72
1959 1960 54–1093⁄4
1960 1961 213⁄4–431⁄8
1961 1962 181⁄4–321⁄4 431⁄8–181⁄4
1963 1964 233⁄8–387⁄8
1964 1965 283⁄8–61
1965 1966 371⁄2–791⁄2
1966 1967 541⁄2–112
1967 1968 561⁄4–371⁄2
1968 1969 545⁄8–24
1969 1970 391⁄2–10
1970 1971 10–241⁄8
aPrices not adjusted for stock-splits.fluctuations of McGraw-Hill common stock for the period
1958–1970. It will be noted that in each of the last 13 years the price
either advanced or declined over a range of at least three to two
from one year to the next. (In the case of National General fluctua-tions of at least this amplitude both upward and downward wereshown in each two-year period.)
In studying the stock list for the material in this chapter, we
were impressed once again by the wide difference between the
usual objectives of security analysis and those we deem depend-
able and rewarding. Most security analysts try to select the issuesthat will give the best account of themselves in the future, in terms
chiefly of market action but considering also the development of
earnings. We are frankly skeptical as to whether this can be donewith satisfactory results. Our preference for the analyst’s workwould be rather that he should seek the exceptional or minoritycases in which he can form a reasonably confident judgment thatthe price is well below value. He should be able to do this work
with sufficient expertness to produce satisfactory average results
over the years.472 The Intelligent InvestorCOMMENTARY ON C HAPTER 18
The thing that hath been, it is that which shall be; and that
which is done is that which shall be done: and there is no new
thing under the sun. Is there any thing whereof it may be said,See, this is new? it hath been already of old time, which wasbefore us.
—Ecclesiastes, I: 9–10.
Let’s update Graham’s classic write-up of eight pairs of companies,
using the same compare-and-contrast technique that he pioneered inhis lectures at Columbia Business School and the New York Instituteof Finance. Bear in mind that these summaries describe these stocks
only at the times specified. The cheap stocks may later become over-
priced; the expensive stocks may turn cheap. At some point in its life,almost every stock is a bargain; at another time, it will be expensive.
Although there are good and bad companies, there is no such thing as
a good stock; there are only good stock prices, which come and go.
PAIR 1: CISCO AND SYSCO
On March 27 , 2000, Cisco Systems, Inc., became the world’s most
valuable corporation as its stock hit $548 billion in total value. Cisco,
which makes equipment that directs data over the Internet, first soldits shares to the public only 10 years earlier. Had you bought Cisco’s
stock in the initial offering and kept it, you would have earned a gain
resembling a typographical error made by a madman: 103,697%, or a217% average annual return. Over its previous four fiscal quarters,Cisco had generated $14.9 billion in revenues and $2.5 billion inearnings. The stock was trading at 219 times Cisco’s net income, oneof the highest price/earnings ratios ever accorded to a large company.
Then there was Sysco Corp., which supplies food to institutional
473kitchens and had been publicly traded for 30 years. Over its last four
quarters, Sysco served up $17 .7 billion in revenues—almost 20%more than Cisco—but “only” $457 million in net income. With a marketvalue of $11.7 billion, Sysco’s shares traded at 26 times earnings,well below the market’s average P/E ratio of 31.
A word-association game with a typical investor might have gone
like this.
Q: What are the first things that pop into your head when I say
Cisco Systems?
A: The Internet . . . the industry of the future . . . great stoc k...h o t
stock... Can I please buy some before it goes up even more?
Q: And what about Sysco Corp.?
A: Delivery trucks . . . succotash . . . Sloppy Joes . . . shepherd’s
p i e...s c hool lunches . . . hospital food . . . no thanks, I’m not hungry
anymore.
It’s well established that people often assign a mental value to
stocks based largely on the emotional imagery that companies evoke.
1
But the intelligent investor always digs deeper. Here’s what a skeptical
look at Cisco and Sysco’s financial statements would have turned up:
• Much of Cisco’s growth in revenues and earnings came from
acquisitions. Since September alone, Cisco had ponied up $10.2
billion to buy 11 other firms. How could so many companies bemashed together so quickly?
2Also, roughly a third of Cisco’s474 Commentary on Chapter 18
1Ask yourself which company’s stock would be likely to rise more: one that
discovered a cure for a rare cancer, or one that discovered a new way to
dispose of a common kind of garbage. The cancer cure sounds more excit-
ing to most investors, but a new way to get rid of trash would probably makemore money. See Paul Slovic, Melissa Finucane, Ellen Peters, and Donald
G. MacGregor, “The Affect Heuristic, ” in Thomas Gilovich, Dale Griffin, and
Daniel Kahneman, eds., Heuristics and Biases: The Psychology of Intuitive
Judgment (Cambridge University Press, New York, 2002), pp. 397–420,
and Donald G. MacGregor, “Imagery and Financial Judgment, ” The Journal
of Psychology and Financial Markets, vol. 3, no. 1, 2002, pp. 15–22.
2“Serial acquirers, ” which grow largely by buying other companies, nearly
always meet a bad end on Wall Street. See the commentary on Chapter 17for a longer discussion.earnings over the previous six months came not from its busi-
nesses, but from tax breaks on stock options exercised by itsexecutives and employees. And Cisco had gained $5.8 billionselling “investments, ” then bought $6 billion more. Was it an Inter-net company or a mutual fund? What if those “investments”
stopped going up?
• Sysco had also acquired several companies over the same
period—but paid only about $130 million. Stock options forSysco’s insiders totaled only 1.5% of shares outstanding, versus6.9% at Cisco. If insiders cashed their options, Sysco’s earnings
per share would be diluted much less than Cisco’s. And Syscohad raised its quarterly dividend from nine cents a share to 10;Cisco paid no dividend.
Finally, as Wharton finance professor Jeremy Siegel pointed out, no
company as big as Cisco had ever been able to grow fast enough to
justify a price/earnings ratio above 60—let alone a P/E ratio over 200.
3
Once a company becomes a giant, its growth must slow down—or it
will end up eating the entire world. The great American satirist
Ambrose Bierce coined the word “incompossible” to describe twothings that are conceivable separately but cannot exist together. A
company can be a giant, or it can deserve a giant P/E ratio, but bothtogether are incompossible.
The wheels soon came off the Cisco juggernaut. First, in 2001,
came a $1.2 billion charge to “restructure” some of those acquisi-
tions. Over the next two years, $1.3 billion in losses on those “invest-ments” leaked out. From 2000 through 2002, Cisco’s stock lost
three-quarters of its value. Sysco, meanwhile, kept dishing out profits,
and the stock gained 56% over the same period (see Figure 18-1).
PAIR 2: YAHOO! AND YUM!
On November 30, 1999, Yahoo! Inc. ’s stock closed at $212.75, up
79.6% since the year began. By December 7 , the stock was at $348—Commentary on Chapter 18 475
3Jeremy Siegel, “Big-Cap Tech Stocks are a Sucker’s Bet, ” Wall Street
Journal, March 14, 2000 (available at www.jeremysiegel.com).a 63.6% gain in five trading days. Yahoo! kept whooping along
through year-end, closing at $432.687 on December 31. In a singlemonth, the stock had more than doubled, gaining roughly $58 billionto reach a total market value of $114 billion.
4
In the previous four quarters, Yahoo! had racked up $433 million in
revenues and $34.9 million in net income. So Yahoo!’s stock was now
priced at 263 times revenues and 3,264 times earnings. (Rememberthat a P/E ratio much above 25 made Graham grimace!)
5
Why was Yahoo! screaming upward? After the market closed on
November 30, Standard & Poor’s announced that it would add Yahoo!to its S & P 500 index as of December 7 . That would make Yahoo! acompulsory holding for index funds and other big investors—and that
sudden rise in demand was sure to drive the stock even higher, at
least temporarily. With some 90% of Yahoo!’s stock locked up in thehands of employees, venture-capital firms, and other restricted hold-
ers, just a fraction of its shares could trade. So thousands of people
bought the stock only because they knew other people would have tobuy it—and price was no object.476 Commentary on Chapter 18
FIGURE 18-1 Cisco vs. Sysco
2000 2001 2002
Cisco
Total return (%) –28.6 –52.7 –27.7Net earnings ($ millions) 2,668 –1,014 1,893
Sysco
Total return (%) 53.5 –11.7 15.5
Net earnings ($ millions) 446 597 680
Note: Total returns for calendar year; net earnings for fiscal year.
Source: www.morningstar.com
4Yahoo!’s stock split two-for-one in February 2000; the share prices given
here are not adjusted for that split in order to show the levels the stock actu-
ally traded at. But Yahoo!’s percentage return and market value, as citedhere, do reflect the split.
5Counting the effect of acquisitions, Yahoo!’s revenues were $464 million.
Graham criticizes high P/E ratios in (among other places) Chapters 7 and 11.Meanwhile, Yum! went begging. A former division of PepsiCo that
runs thousands of Kentucky Fried Chicken, Pizza Hut, and Taco Bell
eateries, Yum! had produced $8 billion in revenues over the previousfour quarters, on which it earned $633 million—making it more than 17times Yahoo!’s size. Yet Yum!’s stock-market value at year-end 1999
was only $5.9 billion, or 1/19 of Yahoo!’s capitalization. At that price,Yum!’s stock was selling at just over nine times its earnings and only
73% of its revenues.
6
As Graham liked to say, in the short run the market is a voting
machine, but in the long run it is a weighing machine. Yahoo! won the
short-term popularity contest. But in the end, it’s earnings that matter—and Yahoo! barely had any. Once the market stopped voting andstarted weighing, the scales tipped toward Yum! Its stock rose 25.4%from 2000 through 2002, while Yahoo!’s lost 92.4% cumulatively:Commentary on Chapter 18 477
FIGURE 18-2 Yahoo! vs. Yum!
2000 2001 2002
Yahoo!
Total return (%) –86.1 –41.0 –7.8Net earnings ($ millions) 71 –93 43
Yum!
Total return (%) –14.6 49.1 –1.5
Net earnings ($ millions) 413 492 583
Notes: Total returns for calendar year; net earnings for fiscal year. Yahoo!’s net earn-
ings for 2002 include effect of change in accounting principle.Sources: www.morningstar.com
6Yum! was then known as Tricon Global Restaurants, Inc., although its
ticker symbol was YUM. The company changed its name officially to Yum!
Brands, Inc. in May 2002.PAIR 3: COMMERCE ONE AND C APITAL ONE
In May 2000, Commerce One, Inc., had been publicly traded only
since the previous July. In its first annual report, the company (whichdesigns Internet “exchanges” for corporate purchasing departments)
showed assets of just $385 million and reported a net loss of $63 mil-lion on only $34 million in total revenues. The stock of this minusculecompany had risen nearly 900% since its IPO, hitting a total marketcapitalization of $15 billion. Was it overpriced? “Yes, we have a big
market cap, ” Commerce One’s chief executive, Mark Hoffman,shrugged in an interview. “But we have a big market to play in. We’re
seeing incredible demand. . . . Analysts expect us to make $140 mil-
lion in revenue this year. And in the past we have exceeded expecta-tions. ”
Two things jump out from Hoffman’s answer:
• Since Commerce One was already losing $2 on every dollar in
sales, if it quadrupled its revenues (as “analysts expect”), wouldn’tit lose money even more massively?
• How could Commerce One have exceeded expectations “in the
past”? What past?
Asked whether his company would ever turn a profit, Hoffman was
ready: “There is no question we can turn this into a profitable busi-ness. We plan on becoming profitable in the fourth quarter of 2001, ayear analysts see us making over $250 million in revenues. ”
There come those analysts again! “I like Commerce One at these
levels because it’s growing faster than Ariba [a close competitorwhose stock was also trading at around 400 times revenues], ” said
Jeanette Sing, an analyst at the Wasserstein Perella investment bank.
“If these growth rates continue, Commerce One will be trading at 60to 70 times sales in 2001. ” (In other words, I can name a stock that’s
more overpriced than Commerce One, so Commerce One is cheap.)
7
At the other extreme was Capital One Financial Corp., an issuer of
MasterCard and Visa credit cards. From July 1999, to May 2000, its
stock lost 21.5%. Yet Capital One had $12 billion in total assets andearned $363 million in 1999, up 32% from the year before. With a
market value of about $7 .3 billion, the stock sold at 20 times Capital
One’s net earnings. All might not be well at Capital One—the companyhad barely raised its reserves for loans that might go bad, even though478 Commentary on Chapter 18
7See “CEO Speaks” and “The Bottom Line, ” Money, May 2000, pp. 42–44.default rates tend to jump in a recession—but its stock price reflected
at least some risk of potential trouble.
What happened next? In 2001, Commerce One generated $409
million in revenues. Unfortunately, it ran a net loss of $2.6 billion—or
$10.30 of red ink per share—on those revenues. Capital One, on theother hand, earned nearly $2 billion in net income in 2000 through2002. Its stock lost 38% in those three years—no worse than the stock
market as a whole. Commerce One, however, lost 99.7% of its value.
8
Instead of listening to Hoffman and his lapdog analysts, traders
should have heeded the honest warning in Commerce One’s annual
report for 1999: “We have never been profitable. We expect to incurnet losses for the foreseeable future and we may never be profitable. ”
PAIR 4: PALM AND 3COM
On March 2, 2000, the data-networking company 3Com Corp. sold
5% of its Palm, Inc. subsidiary to the public. The remaining 95% ofPalm’s stock would be spun off to 3Com’s shareholders in the next
few months; for each share of 3Com they held, investors would
receive 1.525 shares of Palm.
So there were two ways you could get 100 shares of Palm: By try-
ing to elbow your way into the IPO, or by buying 66 shares of 3Comand waiting until the parent company distributed the rest of the Palmstock. Getting one-and-a-half shares of Palm for each 3Com share,
you’d end up with 100 shares of the new company—and you’d still
have 66 shares of 3Com.
But who wanted to wait a few months? While 3Com was struggling
against giant rivals like Cisco, Palm was a leader in the hot “space” ofhandheld digital organizers. So Palm’s stock shot up from its offering priceof $38 to close at $95.06, a 150% first-day return. That valued Palm at
more than 1,350 times its earnings over the previous 12 months.
That same day, 3Com’s share price dropped from $104.13 to
$81.81. Where should 3Com have closed that day, given the price of
Palm? The arithmetic is easy:Commentary on Chapter 18 479
8In early 2003, Capital One’s chief financial officer resigned after securities
regulators revealed that they might charge him with violations of laws
against insider trading.• each 3Com share was entitled to receive 1.525 shares of Palm
• each share of Palm closed at $95.06• 1.525 /H11003$95.06 = $144.97
That’s what each 3Com share was worth based on its stake in
Palm alone. Thus, at $81.81, traders were saying that all of 3Com’s
other businesses combined were worth a negative $63.16 per share,or a total of minus $22 billion! Rarely in history has any stock been
priced more stupidly.
9
But there was a catch: Just as 3Com wasn’t really worth minus
$22 billion, Palm wasn’t really worth over 1,350 times earnings. Bythe end of 2002, both stocks were hurting in the high-tech recession,but it was Palm’s shareholders who really got smacked—because theyabandoned all common sense when they bought in the first place:480 Commentary on Chapter 18
Palm’s Down
$83$2,576
02,0004,0006,0008,00010,00012,00014,000
3/2/00 6/2/00 9/2/0012/2/003/2/01 6/2/01 9/2/01
12/2/013/2/02 6/2/02 9/2/0212/2/02
DatesValue of $10,000 investmentPalm
3ComFIGURE 18-3
9For a more advanced look at this bizarre event, see Owen A. Lamont and
Richard H. Thaler, “Can the Market Add and Subtract?” National Bureau of Eco-
nomic Research working paper no. 8302, at www.nber.org/papers/w8302.Source: www.morningstar.comPAIR 5: CMGI AND CGI
The year 2000 started off with a bang for CMGI, Inc., as the stock hit
$163.22 on January 3—a gain of 1,126% over its price just one yearbefore. The company, an “Internet incubator, ” financed and acquiredstart-up firms in a variety of online businesses—among them such earlystars as theglobe.com and Lycos.
10
In fiscal year 1998, as its stock rose from 98 cents to $8.52,
CMGI spent $53.8 million acquiring whole or partial stakes in Internetcompanies. In fiscal year 1999, as its stock shot from $8.52 to
$46.09, CMGI shelled out $104.7 million. And in the last five months
of 1999, as its shares zoomed up to $138.44, CMGI spent $4.1 bil-lion on acquisitions. Virtually all the “money” was CMGI’s own pri-
vately-minted currency: its common stock, now valued at a total of
more than $40 billion.
It was a kind of magical money merry-go-round. The higher CMGI’s
own stock went, the more it could afford to buy. The more CMGIcould afford to buy, the higher its stock went. First stocks would go upon the rumor that CMGI might buy them; then, once CMGI acquired
them, its own stock would go up because it owned them. No onecared that CMGI had lost $127 million on its operations in the latest
fiscal year.
Down in Webster, Massachusetts, less than 70 miles southwest of
CMGI’s headquarters in Andover, sits the main office of Commerce
Group, Inc. CGI was everything CMGI was not: Offering automobile
insurance, mainly to drivers in Massachusetts, it was a cold stock in an
old industry. Its shares lost 23% in 1999—although its net income, at$89 million, ended up falling only 7% below 1998’s level. CGI even
paid a dividend of more than 4% (CMGI paid none). With a total mar-
ket value of $870 million, CGI stock was trading at less than 10 timeswhat the company would earn for 1999.
And then, quite suddenly, everything went into reverse. CMGI’s
magical money merry-go-round screeched to a halt: Its dot-comCommentary on Chapter 18 481
10CMGI began corporate life as College Marketing Group, which sold infor-
mation about college professors and courses to academic publishers—a
business that bore a faint but disturbing similarity to National Student Mar-keting, discussed by Graham on p. 235.stocks stopped rising in price, then went straight down. No longer
able to sell them for a profit, CMGI had to take their loss in value as ahit to its earnings. The company lost $1.4 billion in 2000, $5.5 billionin 2001, and nearly $500 million more in 2002. Its stock went from$163.22 at the beginning of 2000 to 98 cents by year-end 2002—a
loss of 99.4%. Boring old CGI, however, kept cranking out steadyearnings, and its stock rose 8.5% in 2000, 43.6% in 2001, and 2.7%
in 2002—a 60% cumulative gain.
PAIR 6: BALL AND STRYKER
Between July 9 and July 23, 2002, Ball Corp. ’s stock dropped from
$43.69 to $33.48—a loss of 24% that left the company with a stock-
market value of $1.9 billion. Over the same two weeks, Stryker Corp. ’s
shares fell from $49.55 to $45.60, an 8% drop that left Strkyer valuedat a total of $9 billion.
What had made these two companies worth so much less in so
short a time? Stryker, which manufactures orthopedic implants andsurgical equipment, issued only one press release during those two
weeks. On July 16, Stryker announced that its sales grew 15% to
$734 million in the second quarter, while earnings jumped 31% to$86 million. The stock rose 7% the next day, then rolled right back
downhill.
Ball, the original maker of the famous “Ball Jars” used for canning
fruits and vegetables, now makes metal and plastic packaging forindustrial customers. Ball issued no press releases at all during those
two weeks. On July 25, however, Ball reported that it had earned $50million on sales of $1 billion in the second quarter—a 61% rise in net
income over the same period one year earlier. That brought its earn-
ings over the trailing four quarters to $152 million, so the stock wastrading at just 12.5 times Ball’s earnings. And, with a book value of
$1.1 billion, you could buy the stock for 1.7 times what the company’s
tangible assets were worth. (Ball did, however, have just over $900million in debt.)
Stryker was in a different league. Over the last four quarters, the
company had generated $301 million in net income. Stryker’s bookvalue was $570 million. So the company was trading at fat multiples of30 times its earnings over the past 12 months and nearly 16 times itsbook value. On the other hand, from 1992 through the end of 2001,Stryker’s earnings had risen 18.6% annually; its dividend had grown482 Commentary on Chapter 18by nearly 21% per year. And in 2001, Stryker had spent $142 million
on research and development to lay the groundwork for future growth.
What, then, had pounded these two stocks down? Between July 9
and July 23, 2002, as WorldCom keeled over into bankruptcy, the Dow
Jones Industrial Average fell from 9096.09 to 7702.34, a 15.3%plunge. The good news at Ball and Stryker got lost in the bad headlinesand falling markets, which took these two stocks down with them.
Although Ball ended up priced far more cheaply than Stryker, the
lesson here is not that Ball was a steal and Stryker was a wild pitch.Instead, the intelligent investor should recognize that market panics
can create great prices for good companies (like Ball) and goodprices for great companies (like Stryker). Ball finished 2002 at $51.19a share, up 53% from its July low; Stryker ended the year at $67 .12,up 47%. Every once in a while, value and growth stocks alike go onsale. Which choice you prefer depends largely on your own personal-
ity, but bargains can be had on either side of the plate.
PAIR 7: NORTEL AND NORTEK
The 1999 annual report for Nortel Networks, the fiber-optic equipment
company, boasted that it was “a golden year financially. ” As of Febru-ary 2000, at a market value of more than $150 billion, Nortel’s stock
traded at 87 times the earnings that Wall Street’s analysts estimated
the company would produce in 2000.
How credible was that estimate? Nortel’s accounts receivable—
sales to customers that had not yet paid the bill—had shot up by $1billion in a year. The company said the rise “was driven by increasedsales in the fourth quarter of 1999. ” However, inventories had also bal-
looned by $1.2 billion—meaning that Nortel was producing equipment
even faster than those “increased sales” could unload it.
Meanwhile, Nortel’s “long-term receivables”—bills not yet paid for
multi-year contracts—jumped from $519 million to $1.4 billion. And Nor-tel was having a hard time controlling costs; its selling, general, andadministrative expense (or overhead) had risen from 17 .6% of revenues
in 1997 to 18.7% in 1999. All told, Nortel had lost $351 million in 1999.
Then there was Nortek, Inc., which produces stuff at the dim end of
the glamour spectrum: vinyl siding, door chimes, exhaust fans, range
hoods, trash compactors. In 1999, Nortek earned $49 million on $2billion in net sales, up from $21 million in net income on $1.1 billion insales in 1997 . Nortek’s profit margin (net earnings as a percentage ofCommentary on Chapter 18 483net sales) had risen by almost a third from 1.9% to 2.5%. And Nortek
had cut overhead from 19.3% of revenues to 18.1%.
To be fair, much of Nortek’s expansion came from buying other
companies, not from internal growth. What’s more, Nortek had $1 bil-
lion in debt, a big load for a small firm. But, in February 2000, Nortek’sstock price—roughly five times its earnings in 1999—included a healthydose of pessimism.
On the other hand, Nortel’s price—87 times the guesstimate of what it
might earn in the year to come—was a massive overdose of optimism.When all was said and done, instead of earning the $1.30 per share that
analysts had predicted, Nortel lost $1.17 per share in 2000. By the endof 2002, Nortel had bled more than $36 billion in red ink.
Nortek, on the other hand, earned $41.6 million in 2000, $8 million
in 2001, and $55 million in the first nine months of 2002. Its stockwent from $28 a share to $45.75 by year-end 2002—a 63% gain. In
January 2003, Nortek’s managers took the company private, buying all
the stock from public investors at $46 per share. Nortel’s stock, mean-
while, sank from $56.81 in February 2000, to $1.61 at year-end2002—a 97% loss.
PAIR 8: RED HAT AND BROWN SHOE
On August 11, 1999, Red Hat, Inc., a developer of Linux software,
sold stock to the public for the first time. Red Hat was red-hot; initiallyoffered at $7 , the shares opened for trading at $23 and closed at
$26.031—a 272% gain.
11In a single day, Red Hat’s stock had gone up
more than Brown Shoe’s had in the previous 18 years. By December
9, Red Hat’s shares hit $143.13—up 1,944% in four months.
Brown Shoe, meanwhile, had its laces tied together. Founded in
1878, the company wholesales Buster Brown shoes and runs nearly1,300 footwear stores in the United States and Canada. Brown Shoe’sstock, at $17 .50 a share on August 11, stumbled down to $14.31 by
December 9. For all of 1999, Brown Shoe’s shares lost 17 .6%.
12484 Commentary on Chapter 18
11All stock prices for Red Hat are adjusted for its two-for-one stock split in
January 2000.
12Ironically, 65 years earlier Graham had singled out Brown Shoe as one of
the most stable companies on the New York Stock Exchange. See the 1934
edition of Security Analysis, p. 159.Besides a cool name and a hot stock, what did Red Hat’s investors
get? Over the nine months ending November 30, the company pro-
duced $13 million in revenues, on which it ran a net loss of $9 mil-lion.
13Red Hat’s business was barely bigger than a street-corner
delicatessen—and a lot less lucrative. But traders, inflamed by the
words “software” and “Internet, ” drove the total value of Red Hat’sshares to $21.3 billion by December 9.
And Brown Shoe? Over the previous three quarters, the company
had produced $1.2 billion in net sales and $32 million in earnings.Brown Shoe had nearly $5 a share in cash and real estate; kids were
still buying Buster Brown shoes. Yet, that December 9, Brown Shoe’s
stock had a total value of $261 million—barely 1/80 the size of RedHat even though Brown Shoe had 100 times Red Hat’s revenues. At
that price, Brown Shoe was valued at 7 .6 times its annual earnings
and less than one-quarter of its annual sales. Red Hat, on the otherhand, had no profits at all, while its stock was selling at more than
1,000 times its annual sales.
Red Hat the company kept right on gushing red ink. Soon enough,
the stock did too. Brown Shoe, however, trudged out more profits—and so did its shareholders:Commentary on Chapter 18 485
13We use a nine-month period only because Red Hat’s 12-month results
could not be determined from its financial statements without including the
results of acquisitions.FIGURE 18-4 Red Hat vs. Brown Shoe
2000 2001 2002
Red HatTotal return (%) –94.1 13.6 –16.8Net earnings ($ millions) –43 -87 –140
Brown Shoe
Total return (%) –4.6 28.2 49.5
Net earnings ($ millions) 36 36 –4
Note: Total returns for calendar year; net earnings for fiscal year.
Source: www.morningstar.comWhat have we learned? The market scoffs at Graham’s principles
in the short run, but they are always revalidated in the end. If you buy a
stock purely because its price has been going up—instead of asking
whether the underlying company’s value is increasing—then sooner or
later you will be extremely sorry. That’s not a likelihood. It is a certainty.486 Commentary on Chapter 18CHAPTER 19
Shareholders and Managements: 
Dividend Policy
Ever since 1934 we have argued in our writings for a more intelli-
gent and energetic attitude by shareholders toward their manage-
ments. We have asked them to take a generous attitude towardthose who are demonstrably doing a good job. We have askedthem also to demand clear and satisfying explanations when the
results appear to be worse than they should be, and to support
movements to improve or remove clearly unproductive manage-ments. Shareholders are justified in raising questions as to the com-
petence of the management when the results (1) are unsatisfactory
in themselves, (2) are poorer than those obtained by other compa-nies that appear similarly situated, and (3) have resulted in an
unsatisfactory market price of long duration.
In the last 36 years practically nothing has actually been accom-
plished through intelligent action by the great body of sharehold-ers. A sensible crusader—if there are any such—would take this as
a sign that he has been wasting his time, and that he had bettergive up the fight. As it happens our cause has not been lost; it has
been rescued by an extraneous development—known as take-overs, or take-over bids.* We said in Chapter 8 that poor manage-
487* Ironically, takeovers began drying up shortly after Graham’s last revised
edition appeared, and the 1970s and early 1980s marked the absolute lowpoint of modern American industrial efficiency. Cars were “lemons, ” televi-sions and radios were constantly “on the fritz, ” and the managers of manypublicly-traded companies ignored both the present interests of their out-side shareholders and the future prospects of their own businesses. All ofments produce poor market prices. The low market prices, in turn,
attract the attention of companies interested in diversifying their
operations—and these are now legion. Innumerable such acquisi-
tions have been accomplished by agreement with the existing man-agements, or else by accumulation of shares in the market and byoffers made over the head of those in control. The price bid hasusually been within the range of the value of the enterprise underreasonably competent management. Hence, in many cases, the
inert public shareholder has been bailed out by the actions of “out-
siders”—who at times may be enterprising individuals or groupsacting on their own.
It can be stated as a rule with very few exceptions that poor
managements are not changed by action of the “public stockhold-ers,” but only by the assertion of control by an individual or com-pact group. This is happening often enough these days to put themanagement, including the board of directors, of a typical publiclycontrolled company on notice that if its operating results and the
resulting market price are highly unsatisfactory, it may become the
target of a successful take-over move. As a consequence, boards ofdirectors have probably become more alive than previously to their
fundamental duty to see that their company has a satisfactory top
management. Many more changes of presidents have been seen inrecent years than formerly.
Not all companies in the unsatisfactory class have benefited
from such developments. Also, the change has often occurred aftera long period of bad results without remedial action, and has
depended on enough disappointed shareholders selling out at lowprices to permit the energetic outsiders to acquire a controlling
position in the shares. But the idea that public shareholders could
really help themselves by supporting moves for improving man-
agement and management policies has proved too quixotic to war-488 The Intelligent Investor
this began to change in 1984, when independent oilman T. Boone Pickens
launched a hostile takeover bid for Gulf Oil. Soon, fueled by junk-bond
financing provided by Drexel Burnham Lambert, “corporate raiders” stalkedthe landscape of corporate America, scaring long-sclerotic companies intoa new regimen of efficiency. While many of the companies involved in buy-outs and takeovers were ravaged, the rest of American business emergedboth leaner (which was good) and meaner (which sometimes was not).rant further space in this book. Those individual shareholders who
have enough gumption to make their presence felt at annual meet-
ings—generally a completely futile performance—will not need
our counsel on what points to raise with the managements. Forothers the advice would probably be wasted. Nevertheless, let usclose this section with the plea that shareholders consider with anopen mind and with careful attention any proxy material sent themby fellow-shareholders who want to remedy an obviously unsatis-
factory management situation in the company.
Shareholders and Dividend Policy
In the past the dividend policy was a fairly frequent subject of
argument between public, or “minority,” shareholders and man-agements. In general these shareholders wanted more liberal divi-
dends, while the managements preferred to keep the earnings inthe business “to strengthen the company.” They asked the share-holders to sacrifice their present interests for the good of the enter-prise and for their own future long-term benefit. But in recent yearsthe attitude of investors toward dividends has been undergoing agradual but significant change. The basic argument now for payingsmall rather than liberal dividends is not that the company“needs” the money, but rather that it can use it to the shareholders’
direct and immediate advantage by retaining the funds for prof-
itable expansion. Years ago it was typically the weak company thatwas more or less forced to hold on to its profits, instead of paying
out the usual 60% to 75% of them in dividends. The effect was
almost always adverse to the market price of the shares. Nowadaysit is quite likely to be a strong and growing enterprise that deliber-
ately keeps down its dividend payments, with the approval of
investors and speculators alike.*
There was always a strong theoretical case for reinvesting prof-Shareholders and Managements 489
* The irony that Graham describes here grew even stronger in the 1990s,
when it almost seemed that the stronger the company was, the less likely itwas to pay a dividend—or for its shareholders to want one. The “payoutratio” (or the percentage of their net income that companies paid out as div-idends) dropped from “60% to 75%” in Graham’s day to 35% to 40% bythe end of the 1990s.its in the business where such retention could be counted on to
produce a goodly increase in earnings. But there were several
strong counter-arguments, such as: The profits “belong” to the
shareholders, and they are entitled to have them paid out withinthe limits of prudent management; many of the shareholders needtheir dividend income to live on; the earnings they receive in divi-dends are “real money,” while those retained in the company mayor may not show up later as tangible values for the shareholders.
These counter-arguments were so compelling, in fact, that the stock
market showed a persistent bias in favor of the liberal dividendpayers as against the companies that paid no dividends or rela-
tively small ones.
1
In the last 20 years the “profitable reinvestment” theory has
been gaining ground. The better the past record of growth, thereadier investors and speculators have become to accept a low-
pay-out policy. So much is this true that in many cases of growthfavorites the dividend rate—or even the absence of any dividend—has seemed to have virtually no effect on the market price.*
A striking example of this development is found in the history
of Texas Instruments, Incorporated. The price of its common stock
rose from 5 in 1953 to 256 in 1960, while earnings were advancingfrom 43 cents to $3.91 per share and while no dividend of any kindwas paid. (In 1962 cash dividends were initiated, but by that yearthe earnings had fallen to $2.14 and the price had shown a spectac-
ular drop to a low of 49.)
Another extreme illustration is provided by Superior Oil. In
1948 the company reported earnings of $35.26 per share, paid $3 individends, and sold as high as 235. In 1953 the dividend wasreduced to $1, but the high price was 660. In 1957 it paid no dividend490 The Intelligent Investor
* In the late 1990s, technology companies were particularly strong advo-
cates of the view that all of their earnings should be “plowed back into the
business, ” where they could earn higher returns than any outside share-
holder possibly could by reinvesting the same cash if it were paid out to himor her in dividends. Incredibly, investors never questioned the truth of thispatronizing Daddy-Knows-Best principle—or even realized that a company’scash belongs to the shareholders, not its managers. See the commentaryon this chapter.at all, and sold at 2,000! This unusual issue later declined to 795 in
1962, when it earned $49.50 and paid $7.50.*
Investment sentiment is far from crystallized in this matter of
dividend policy of growth companies. The conflicting views are
well illustrated by the cases of two of our very largest corpora-tions—American Telephone & Telegraph and International Busi-ness Machines. American Tel. & Tel. came to be regarded as anissue with good growth possibilities, as shown by the fact that in
1961 it sold at 25 times that year’s earnings. Nevertheless, the
company’s cash dividend policy has remained an investment andspeculative consideration of first importance, its quotation making
an active response to even rumors of an impending increase in the
dividend rate. On the other hand, comparatively little attention
appears to have been paid to the cash dividend on IBM, which in
1960 yielded only 0.5% at the high price of the year and 1.5% at the
close of 1970. (But in both cases stock splits have operated as a
potent stock-market influence.)
The market’s appraisal of cash-dividend policy appears to be
developing in the following direction: Where prime emphasis isnot placed on growth the stock is rated as an “income issue,” and
the dividend rate retains its long-held importance as the prime
determinant of market price. At the other extreme, stocks clearlyrecognized to be in the rapid-growth category are valued primarily
in terms of the expected growth rate over, say, the next decade, and
the cash-dividend rate is more or less left out of the reckoning.
While the above statement may properly describe present ten-
dencies, it is by no means a clear-cut guide to the situation in all
common stocks, and perhaps not in the majority of them. For one
thing, many companies occupy an intermediate position between
growth and nongrowth enterprises. It is hard to say how much
importance should be ascribed to the growth factor in such cases,and the market’s view thereof may change radically from year to
year. Secondly, there seems to be something paradoxical aboutShareholders and Managements 491
* Superior Oil’s stock price peaked at $2165 per share in 1959, when it
paid a $4 dividend. For many years, Superior was the highest-priced stocklisted on the New York Stock Exchange. Superior, controlled by the Keckfamily of Houston, was acquired by Mobil Corp. in 1984.requiring the companies showing slower growth to be more liberal
with their cash dividends. For these are generally the less prosper-
ous concerns, and in the past the more prosperous the company the
greater was the expectation of both liberal and increasing pay-ments.
It is our belief that shareholders should demand of their man-
agements either a normal payout of earnings—on the order, say, oftwo-thirds—or else a clear-cut demonstration that the reinvested
profits have produced a satisfactory increase in per-share earnings.
Such a demonstration could ordinarily be made in the case of a rec-ognized growth company. But in many other cases a low payout is
clearly the cause of an average market price that is below fair
value, and here the shareholders have every right to inquire andprobably to complain.
A niggardly policy has often been imposed on a company
because its financial position is relatively weak, and it has neededall or most of its earnings (plus depreciation charges) to pay debts
and bolster its working-capital position. When this is so there is not
much the shareholders can say about it—except perhaps to criticizethe management for permitting the company to fall into such an
unsatisfactory financial position. However, dividends are some-
times held down by relatively unprosperous companies for thedeclared purpose of expanding the business. We feel that such a
policy is illogical on its face, and should require both a complete
explanation and a convincing defense before the shareholdersshould accept it. In terms of the past record there is no reason a pri-
ori to believe that the owners will benefit from expansion movesundertaken with their money by a business showing mediocre
results and continuing its old management.
Stock Dividends and Stock Splits
It is important that investors understand the essential difference
between a stock dividend (properly so-called) and a stock split.
The latter represents a restatement of the common-stock struc-
ture—in a typical case by issuing two or three shares for one. Thenew shares are not related to specific earnings reinvested in a spe-cific past period. Its purpose is to establish a lower market price forthe single shares, presumably because such lower price range492 The Intelligent Investorwould be more acceptable to old and new shareholders. A stock
split may be carried out by what technically may be called a stock
dividend, which involves a transfer of sums from earned surplus
to capital account; or else by a change in par value, which does notaffect the surplus account.*
What we should call a proper stock dividend is one that is paid to
shareholders to give them a tangible evidence or representation ofspecific earnings which have been reinvested in the business for
their account over some relatively short period in the recent past—say, not more than the two preceding years. It is now approvedpractice to value such a stock dividend at the approximate value at
the time of declaration, and to transfer an amount equal to such
value from earned surplus to capital accounts. Thus the amount ofa typical stock dividend is relatively small—in most cases not morethan 5%. In essence a stock dividend of this sort has the same over-all effect as the payment of an equivalent amount of cash out ofearnings when accompanied by the sale of additional shares of like
total value to the shareholders. However, a straight stock dividend
has an important tax advantage over the otherwise equivalentcombination of cash dividends with stock subscription rights,
which is the almost standard practice for public-utility companies.
The New York Stock Exchange has set the figure of 25% as a
practical dividing line between stock splits and stock dividends.Those of 25% or more need not be accompanied by the transfer of
their market value from earned surplus to capital, and so forth.†Some companies, especially banks, still follow the old practice ofShareholders and Managements 493
* Today, virtually all stock splits are carried out by a change in value. In a
two-for-one split, one share becomes two, each trading at half the former
price of the original single share; in a three-for-one split, one share becomes
three, each trading at a third of the former price; and so on. Only in very rarecases is a sum transferred “from earned surplus to capital account, ” as in
Graham’s day.
† Rule 703 of the New York Stock Exchange governs stock splits and stockdividends. The NYSE now designates stock dividends of greater than 25%and less than 100% as “partial stock splits. ” Unlike in Graham’s day, thesestock dividends may now trigger the NYSE’s accounting requirement thatthe amount of the dividend be capitalized from retained earnings.declaring any kind of stock dividend they please—e.g., one of 10%,
not related to recent earnings—and these instances maintain an
undesirable confusion in the financial world.
We have long been a strong advocate of a systematic and clearly
enunciated policy with respect to the payment of cash and stock
dividends. Under such a policy, stock dividends are paid periodi-cally to capitalize all or a stated portion of the earnings reinvestedin the business. Such a policy—covering 100% of the reinvested
earnings—has been followed by Purex, Government Employees
Insurance, and perhaps a few others.*
Stock dividends of all types seem to be disapproved of by most
academic writers on the subject. They insist that they are nothingbut pieces of paper, that they give the shareholders nothing theydid not have before, and that they entail needless expense andinconvenience.† On our side we consider this a completely doctri-naire view, which fails to take into account the practical and psychological realities of investment. True, a periodic stock divi-
dend—say of 5%—changes only the “form” of the owners’ invest-
ment. He has 105 shares in place of 100; but without the stockdividend the original 100 shares would have represented the same494 The Intelligent Investor
* This policy, already unusual in Graham’s day, is extremely rare today. In
1936 and again in 1950, roughly half of all stocks on the NYSE paid a
so-called special dividend. By 1970, however, that percentage had declined
to less than 10% and, by the 1990s, was well under 5%. See Harry DeAn-gelo, Linda DeAngelo, and Douglas J. Skinner, “Special Dividends and the
Evolution of Dividend Signaling, ” Journal of Financial Economics, vol. 57 , no.
3, September, 2000, pp. 309–354. The most plausible explanation for this
decline is that corporate managers became uncomfortable with the idea
that shareholders might interpret special dividends as a signal that future
profits might be low.† The academic criticism of dividends was led by Merton Miller and Franco
Modigliani, whose influential article “Dividend Policy, Growth, and the Valua-
tion of Shares” (1961) helped win them Nobel Prizes in Economics. Millerand Modigliani argued, in essence, that dividends were irrelevant, since aninvestor should not care whether his return comes through dividends and arising stock price, or through a rising stock price alone, so long as the totalreturn is the same in either case.ownership interest now embodied in his 105 shares. Nonetheless,
the change of form is actually one of real importance and value to
him. If he wishes to cash in his share of the reinvested profits he
can do so by selling the new certificate sent him, instead of havingto break up his original certificate. He can count on receiving thesame cash-dividend rate on 105 shares as formerly on his 100shares; a 5% rise in the cash-dividend rate without the stock divi-dend would not be nearly as probable.*
The advantages of a periodic stock-dividend policy are most
evident when it is compared with the usual practice of the public-utility companies of paying liberal cash dividends and then taking
back a good part of this money from the shareholders by selling
them additional stock (through subscription rights).† As we men-tioned above, the shareholders would find themselves in exactlythe same position if they received stock dividends in lieu of thepopular combination of cash dividends followed by stock sub-scriptions—except that they would save the income tax otherwise
paid on the cash dividends. Those who need or wish the maximum
annual cash income, with no additional stock, can get this result byselling their stock dividends, in the same way as they sell their sub-
scription rights under present practice.
The aggregate amount of income tax that could be saved by sub-
stituting stock dividends for the present stock-dividends-plus-subscription-rights combination is enormous. We urge that thisShareholders and Managements 495
* Graham’s argument is no longer valid, and today’s investors can safely
skip over this passage. Shareholders no longer need to worry about “having
to break up” a stock certificate, since virtually all shares now exist in elec-
tronic rather than paper form. And when Graham says that a 5% increase ina cash dividend on 100 shares is less “probable” than a constant dividend
on 105 shares, it’s unclear how he could even calculate that probability.
† Subscription rights, often simply known as “rights, ” are used less fre-quently than in Graham’s day. They confer upon an existing shareholder the
right to buy new shares, sometimes at a discount to market price. A share-
holder who does not participate will end up owning proportionately less ofthe company. Thus, as is the case with so many other things that go by thename of “rights, ” some coercion is often involved. Rights are most commontoday among closed-end funds and insurance or other holding companies.change be made by the public utilities, despite its adverse effect on
the U.S. Treasury, because we are convinced that it is completely
inequitable to impose a second (personal) income tax on earnings
which are not really received by the shareholders, since the compa-nies take the same money back through sales of stock.*
Efficient corporations continuously modernize their facilities,
their products, their bookkeeping, their management-training pro-grams, their employee relations. It is high time they thought about
modernizing their major financial practices, not the least important
of which is their dividend policy.496 The Intelligent Investor
* The administration of President George W. Bush made progress in early
2003 toward reducing the problem of double-taxation of corporate divi-dends, although it is too soon to know how helpful any final laws in this areawill turn out to be. A cleaner approach would be to make dividend paymentstax-deductible to the corporation, but that is not part of the proposed legis-lation.COMMENTARY ON C HAPTER 19
The most dangerous untruths are truths slightly distorted.
—G. C. Lichtenberg
WHY DID GRAHAM THROW IN THE TOWEL?
Perhaps no other part of The Intelligent Investor was more drastically
changed by Graham than this. In the first edition, this chapter was one
of a pair that together ran nearly 34 pages. That original section (“The
Investor as Business Owner”) dealt with shareholders’ voting rights,ways of judging the quality of corporate management, and techniques
for detecting conflicts of interest between insiders and outside
investors. By his last revised edition, however, Graham had pared thewhole discussion back to less than eight terse pages about dividends.
Why did Graham cut away more than three-quarters of his original
argument? After decades of exhortation, he evidently had given uphope that investors would ever 